1< Back to gopher.somnolescent.net	../

==== ABOUT SOMNOLESCENT ===============================================
0About Somnolescent (for non-compliant clients)	somnolescent.info

Somnolescent is an art collective and group of internet friends
established in 2018. Their interests are numerous--drawing, videos,
ancient media, old chunky tech, indie rock and ambient and terrible
2000s pop music you'd find on Warrior Cats AMVs. They span the West,
from the driftless north of Minnesota to the castle ruins of Wales.

somnolescent.net is a big site network of everything they get up to
creatively and often personally. gopher.somnolescent.net is a plain
text repository of that creativity, focused on files to download. Art
pieces, music, stories, code by us and archived software not by us can
all be browsed in a low-overhead list format ideal for old PCs here.

==== SOMNOLIANS =======================================================
gCammy (mariteaux)	cammy.gif
hmariteaux.somnolescent.net	URL:http://mariteaux.somnolescent.net/
hcammy.somnolescent.net	URL:http://cammy.somnolescent.net/
Caby's boyf, Somnol's webmaster, writer, drawer, level designer,
musician... Was a notorious Flareon in a past life. Confirmed for gay.
Will steal all your pillows in his sleep. Expect him at a record store
near you. (For several hours straight.)

gCaby (...caby)	caby.gif
hcaby.somnolescent.net	URL:http://caby.somnolescent.net/
Soft hippie Welsh girl conjuring lush nature scenes from her big screen
tablet. Married to Cammy! Tends day and night to her herd of guinea
pigs--four currently, ten in all so far!

gLince (dotcomboom)	lince.gif
hdotcomboom.somnolescent.net	URL:http://dotcomboom.somnolescent.net/
Somnol's resident software dev targeting your brand new Gateway PC.
Huge fan of plushies, frequent Furcadia flyer, and doodle dabbler. Owns
and operates Minnesota's first-ever retirement home for old computers.

gSavannah (fivewholeducks)	berry.gif
hfwd.somnolescent.net	URL:http://fwd.somnolescent.net/
Somnol's #1 fan of humans. Canadian (poor thing). Fond of clay
sculptures, Spyro, and self-deprecation. Using her experiences in
marketing to write a webcomic about vampires.

gConnor (tai7k)	connor.gif
hconnor.somnolescent.net	URL:http://connor.somnolescent.net/
Singer/guitarist/composer/weeaboo with a cool sword. Somnolescent's
second from Canada (please help they're multiplying). More of a :power:
guy. Is on the fast-track to having someone fuck his dad.

gJake (deleteyouremails)	jake.gif
hjake.somnolescent.net	URL:http://jake.somnolescent.net/
Prolific sandwich photographer, part-time vlogger. Has work in the
morning. Despite better attempts, still does not have my home address.
This Time He's Really Gonna Do It.

gTrys (cramble)	cramble.gif
hcramble.somnolescent.net	URL:http://cramble.somnolescent.net/
Ankle-length jorts enthusiast and programmer of world-class Roblox
shitposts. Caby's brother. Can eat a tin of cold beans in less than ten
minutes. Last seen trying to teach ChatGPT his conlang.

==== IN CASE YOU WERE CURIOUS... ======================================
Q: What does "Somnolescent" mean?
A: It's a big pretentious word that means you're sleepy. Somnolians
(those in the group) tend to sleep rather poorly, though we don't
encourage that...
That said, we like the peaceful vibe of the half hour or so before you
head to bed, so that's what we try to cultivate.

Q: When did Somnolescent get started?
A: Officially, our birthday is December 20, 2018. The name and bulb
have existed since Cammy was in middle school in 2012 or so, though.

Q: Why the half-bulb logo?
A: It's easy to draw and memorable. Is the bulb out? Is it on? It is
both.

Q: Where can I talk to you guys?
A: At the moment, there's nowhere you can talk to us all at once, but
we love getting email! mariteaux, caby, dotcomboom, fwd, and connor
@somnolescent.net all work. Other contact info and profiles can be
found on our sites.