# Recap #2: Blogging Still Isn't Cool
## April 27, 2019
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
A new look, an old CMS, some badgers, some slapcore--it's time for a recap.

---

You might notice the site looks a little different from the last time you
might've been here. Somnolescent, in its ongoing efforts to be as Web 1.0 as
possible, has adopted an actual Web 1.0 look, though built modern and mobile-
friendly because we're not cavemen.

(If you're curious about a bit of internet history, the design was inspired
by a very old online diary, Nobody Knows Anything. The person behind it,
Diane Patterson, has since adopted a much more modern-looking WordPress site
with her name on it.)

Ironically, the other big news of the month concerns the launch of our very
much Web 2.0 group blog. Everyone in the collective's been given carte
blanche to post whatever they want to it, and I'm curious to see what shows
up on it, especially from those of us without sites. (Writing this skin
without any documentation was a massive pain in the ass though umu)

In other news, I put out a record earlier this month, In Free Fall. It's on
Spotify and places. Reviews have been pretty positive, though more music
might have to wait.

Capy's been slowly overhauling parts of her site. Towards the end of last
month, she posted a gallery of badger drawings featuring yours truly, uwu.

Unfortunately, computer trouble seems to be the theme of the past month; not
only did mon accidentally destroy the logic board to his Macbook during
repairs, but my home server (which doubled as my music workstation and our
Gopher server) ate its partition table mid-month and everything on it got
lost. It's recovered fine now, but the Gopher server will have to wait to go
back up. I'm busy.

It's really unfortunate too, because we'd finally transitioned onto dcb's
Pituophis server software a few days before it died. Either way, next time
you see it, it'll be all homegrown, no Bucktooth here. Good stuff.