# Recap #17: Fuck You, It's January!
## January 31, 2021
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
*That's right, Jay.* It's the most *magical time of the year* here at
Somnolescent. Just look at all the sequels, reboots, and remakes on offer
this month! It *most definitely has not* been us sitting around and playing
video games. Why, have a look at:

---

## Districts 2
This one's already a bit out-of-date, but it's a good proof of concept. After
we all sat around, playing with a "find tiny interesting sites" randomizer
and finding zero tiny interesting sites, I decided to build the Seamount
Navigator, basically a bunch of links to a variety of small sites out in the
aether that you've never heard of. Real "fuck the algorithm" hours.

Like I said, it's already kind of outdated since we'd like to spin it off
into a proper subdomain (we already have #seamounts in Somnolescent's Discord
ready to go!), but it's not like the links don't work anymore or anything.
Have a peek if you haven't seen it.

## Old Sites 2
Somnolescent is not averse to following trends, only these days, the trends
come from within. Like how I started the Scratchpad after dcb asked for a
blog of his own, dcb came up with a basic HTML site and the group followed.

dcb wrote a blog post about "digital gardens" back in early December, and I
remember finding the idea of it super appealing. You build enough sites, and
the usual "layout and navigation" thing tends to feel a bit limiting. Plus,
I've been wanting to build a little bit outside of the AutoSite box, as
lovely as it's been to use. Enter Lince's Links and Cammy's Badger Den.

His site's pretty strong in the "digital garden" mold, so lots of links, lots
of stray thoughts--bit more of an adventure to it than his normal site.
(Alas, he's been busy with school. Eager for more updates though, lad.)
Meanwhile, mine's still being built, and I'm focusing more on full pages for
my hobbies and fixations and experimenting with how exactly I build pages.
Some of it's new and some of it's being moved from mari.somnol, which is now
exclusively for my public work as a "portfolio" of sorts.

I hear Devon's got something similar in the pipeline too. Curious what her
spin on this old-school trend will be.

## New Sites 2, but the only difference is the URL
Like Caby moved domains back in November, borb has finally moved off
carrot.somnolescent.net (which now similarly serves as a redirect) onto
borb.somnolescent.net, which makes sense because that's what everyone
actually calls her.

Despite this, there is zero new content to see, unless you count a list of
her brother's books as content. (Not a bad collection though. Yours truly
might be getting a few of them, even.) Here's hoping 2021 brings us a more
colorful borb site, and in fairness to her, she *has* been talking about
such. (Did I mention we're all a bit slow lately?)

### Oh, and Caby redesigned her site and it looks really nice
Caby's been playing a whole lot of *Elder Scrolls* lately, so with the
fantasy itch comes a fantasy-themed site redesign! This one's of the classic
"fitting a table together with parts of an image" type, and I might be
biased, but I love it a lot. Even without the MS Paint crunch (if you want to
dirty up a GIF, use Paint), there's just comfy texture to *burn*. And it
works in Retrozilla!

There's actually a lot rewritten and some new graphics here (one of which is
in the art section of this recap in its uncrunched form--take a guess which
one we picked), and as you can see from the changelog, whispers of some
subsite goodness on the way! And--if nothing else, you can see the recently-
unearthed more complete version of mawiteaux... >w>

### The death of HTTPS
Yes, there is one actual bit of important news I'll be elaborating on in a
blog post in a few days, and that's major changes to how our sites load and
where you'll be able to find them. If any of your links break, hopefully,
this keeps you from wondering why. (And then hopefully, you fix your fucking
links.)

Hey, Jay...do you feel a little...lightheaded right now? Almost like...I'm
not really Mike at all, and it's just the oxygen in this house slowly
dwindling...?