# End it Someday: Looking Back on *With the Lights Out*
## November 23, 2019
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
An overly long, winding, and personal review of Nirvana's outtakes
clearinghouse, 2004's *With the Lights Out*.

---

It's been 25 years, 7 months, and 19 days since the death of Kurt Cobain. You
might remember him as the singer and guitarist for Nirvana, who later ended
up trying pellet-flavored Pez in his greenhouse. He's pretty much been
canonized as the last great rockstar, and eh--I don't care. I love Nirvana,
but I don't care.

It's also been 15 years since the release of a little three-CD-one-DVD
Nirvana treasure trove of B-sides, live tapes, and rehearsals came into the
world. With the Lights Out was the first official look into the home demos
and leftovers that went into producing Nirvana's three proper records. It's
a fascinating little document with a lot of history--and a lot of flaws.

Join me as I ramble about my history with the boxset, its highs, its lows,
and where I think it sits in the Greater Nirvana Canon as a Sacred Text or
something.

## "Heartbreaker! Heartbreaker!"
My love for Nirvana started not with *Nevermind* or *In Utero* or even
*Bleach*, but with the little grasping-at-all-the-dollars spinoff CD to
*With the Lights Out*, *Sliver: The Best of the Box*. I don't remember where
I really first heard Nirvana: could've been *Guitar Hero*, could've been
elsewhere. I was seven years old, and my stepmom, whose CD collection was
where my music tastes usually incubated, had only a copy of the latter CD.
(I believe her copy of *Nevermind* got stolen.) In addition to asking for all
their actual albums for Christmas, I began to dig through Sliver and hear,
well, a bunch of messy rehearsals. Odd introduction to the band, I know.

I'll come back to *Sliver* later in the post, but suffice to say, tiny Cammy
found it both irritating and tantalizing. I think I was too green to really
appreciate it at its messiest, but other tracks got me wanting more: "Clean
Up Before She Comes" proved the grungeman had an ear for harmony, the static-
damaged "Lithium" was yet still a highlight, and "Blandest" was just raw as
fuck. I had to hear more.

It wasn't long before I had the full boxset in my hands, and tiny Cammy
listened through every CD religiously. Fuck being an angsty teen, I was an
angsty little kid, sitting and stewing over the murky "Where Did You Sleep
Last Night" or the warmth of their cover of "Here She Comes Now" or the
flatly miserable "Verse Chorus Verse" in equal measure. Something about it
interested me more than their proper, realized albums, and all these years
later, even as the shiny plated cover on mine's been scratched to hell, I
still hang onto it with a certain fondness.

That's why I felt inclined to look back at it in this much detail. It's an
oddly major part of my past. Even when I owned their proper albums, *With the
Lights Out* was still the lens through which I saw them. It set me up for a
lifetime of sifting through demos and seeking out rough mixes and comparing
intricacies between versions of the same track. Even after streaming was a
thing, I was still pouring over CDs and liner notes and fansites, and *With
the Lights Out* represents the genesis of that obsession.

It's by no means complete, by no means totally accurate, and in some cases,
a glaring missed opportunity, but it's the warts that make it worth
discussion. Let's go through each of the CDs individually.

## Disc One: 1987-1989
For all its faults, one cannot say *With the Lights Out* doesn't properly
establish Nirvana's origins. Their first live show and radio session are
both present in fairly good quality at the start of the disc and show about
as embryonic a Nirvana as you can get. They played a lot of covers, as garage
bands tend to do: for all his protesting, Kurt manages to rip through
"Heartbreaker" fairly accurately, and I guess if you're gonna cover an
obscure 60s band that isn't Shocking Blue, Thunder and Roses will work.

Of course, if you actually try to listen to it straight through, you quickly
realize that it's not exactly top-shelf material, at least not for several
songs in. The first spark of genius occurs on the track that got the dubious
moniker of "Mrs. Butterworth" (I'll get back to that): Nirvana wasn't known
for their shredding, but this one shows their metal tendencies as alive as
ever, and with one of the catchiest choruses Kurt would ever discard to boot.
By nature, though, this is the spottiest of the three discs. Light on Nirvana
classics and heavy on half-written originals and weak live performances, the
first disc is a tough sell to people who aren't me.

Making matters worse is the lack of research that hits this first disc
especially hard. Three out of the first five tracks are mislabeled, with two
being outright fabricated names. It doesn't get much better past that point:
"Seed" is inexplicably "Don't Want it All", "Erectum" appears as "Raunchola",
and as said, "Mrs. Butterworth" is a plain ol' fake name for a song that
didn't have one. (Dates and performers are wrong across a lot of the set, but
I'll get on with it.)

I get that names get lost sometimes, but this was presented as a historical
document, essentially, work tapes from a band prone to recording many of
them. That's really where a lack of research hurts the set: people in
Nirvana's camp caught this shit not long after its release, making the
frankly bootleg-quality mislabels seem like a lack of care was put into it.
(The brickwalled mastering of the entire set is even more eyebrow-raising.
You know, brickwalling demos off tapes that, in some cases, needed to be
baked to be playable again.)

The other thing that becomes apparent throughout the first disc is that Kurt
had...a few bad ideas occasionally. The story goes that "Beans" was slated
for release on *Bleach*, but Kurt's hand was promptly slapped by Sub Pop's
Jonathan Poneman, who thought it was fucking retarded. We might've gotten
"Big Cheese" out of the ordeal, but in this case, the big cheese had a point:
it is, in fact, fucking retarded.

In that sense, *With the Lights Out* is actually pretty humanizing: if this
is supposed to be a look into the mind of a young Kurt Cobain, it's a look
into a lot of half-baked sketches and dicking around that would've tanked
*Bleach* had Kurt gotten his way. Simply put: this brilliant songwriter?
Wrote the lines "Japhy had some beans, he was happy, happy, happy that he ate
some beans", pitch-shifted his voice to an aggravating squeak, and wanted to
put it on wax. Your dumb ideas are probably no more embarrassing than his.

About the halfway point in the disc is where the dumb experiments and covers
teeter off and some of Kurt's best work starts to creep in: for acoustic
tracks, "Clean Up Before She Comes" is the best use of a 4-track I think I've
ever heard (and some of Kurt's best harmonies for sure), and "Seed" is plenty
moody (if a little aimless). As far as band demos go, the early "Dive" with
Jason Everman on second guitar is an especially bright point, with a totally
different, almost live vibe from the watery rattle of the later Smart
version. The *Blew* session tracks (especially "Token Eastern Song") and the
three tracks from the Jury sessions, where members of Nirvana and Screaming
Trees covered Lead Belly tracks, are also highlights.

I probably would've traded most of the 1987 material for cuts from the Fecal
Matter tape and one of the two "Polly"s for their cover of Kiss' "Do You Love
Me?" just for completion sake, but the first disc shows exactly what Nirvana
was in the beginning, for better or for worse: hopped up on classic rock,
without a permanent drummer or Black Francis' patented dynamics in tow, and
finding ways to indulge their weirdness that didn't involve a fucking pitch-
shifter.

## Disc Two: 1990-1992
Disc two is where the classics start showing up. It's probably the most
listenable CD of the entire set, featuring the 1990 KAOS acoustic radio set
(partially, I'll come back to that), cuts from the excellent Smart sessions,
outtakes from *Nevermind*â€˜s recording, and a smattering of relatively
essential B-sides towards the end. Kurt's solo stuff is kept to the front of
the disc, and most of it hits...mostly because it's a lot of softballs, but
let's not get ahead of ourselves.

The most illuminating stretch of the disc are the demos and outtakes leading
up to *Nevermind*. While "Old Age" isn't the March 1991 barn demo *The
Stranger* leaked ages before the boxset dropped, it's a better listen,
scratch vocal notwithstanding. "Verse Chorus Verse" might not have been
Kurt's most memorable tune, but I've always enjoyed the way Kurt mumbles
through lines like "You're the reason I feel pain" as blunt as he never
seemed to. And of course, the early barn demo of "Smells Like Teen Spirit" is
as excellent as work tape selections get: it might be distorted beyond belief
and fuzzy about the fine details, but goddamn if it isn't an incredibly
energetic, fun to listen to take of what would later become Nirvana's
signature song. *This* is what this boxset was meant for.

When this disc gets good, it gets positively essential. The home demo of
"Where Did You Sleep Last Night", with the tape recorder's mechanism almost
as prominent as Kurt's guitar and voice, could pass as a recording from a
bygone era of 78s and primitive recording equipment. "Pay to Play" goes much,
much harder than "Stay Away" ever did. The full-band "Retards" demo of "Drain
You", while still a little undercooked, is a catchier, poppier counterpoint
to the song that'd appear on *Nevermind* and a great listen overall. For
B-sides, "Oh, the Guilt" remains underappreciated, "Curmudgeon" is fucking
insane to listen to, and "D-7" renders the Wipers original obsolete.

Issue is: a lot of this was previously released. "Pay to Play" showed up on
*DGC Rarities* with a better master. "Aneurysm" and "Curmudgeon" were
B-sides. "Return of the Rat" and "Here She Comes Now" are more compilation
fodder. "Oh, the Guilt" is an alternate, largely flattened mix of an earlier
split single with The Jesus Lizard. "D-7" reminds you *Hormoaning* never got
a proper CD reissue.

Re-releasing harder-to-find B-sides is no problem: Hell, I quite enjoy that.
For all the shit you can give Capitol, the "Collector's Editions" of *Pablo
Honey*, *The Bends*, and *OK Computer* remain genuinely solid purchases if
you can find them. The former alone features the entirety of Radiohead's
forever out-of-print debut EP *Drill*, CD copies of which regularly go for
about five times the entirety of the Collector's Edition itself goes for.
(And unlike *With the Lights Out*, no remaster garbage there.) It's not
reissuing that's the issue, it's that there's so many better, properly
unreleased recordings to fill the space with.

The benefit of hindsight and later leaks let us see exactly what Geffen
*didn't* include. A version of "Dumb" from the KAOS session surfaced in
excellent quality in 2016, which would've far outdone the staid, frankly
unnecessary BBC session take featured here. The Sound City version of "Sappy"
was the white whale of the Nirvana tape traders for a long time before it too
fell to the *Montage of Heck* leaker at large, but it could've appeared on
this disc. Out of everything from the 1991 Music Source session, why
"Aneurysm"? Why not the scratch take of "On a Plain"? Or the early "Radio
Friendly Unit Shifter"? If we're talking BBC sessions, no electric "Something
in the Way"?

It might seem like I'm splitting hairs, given that all this surfaced later
on, but this disc was a golden opportunity to show what went into Nirvana's
golden age behind the curtain. Dedicated fans can easily track down the "Oh,
the Guilt" split and Singles boxset for this stuff. Yes, you're getting them
in one spot, and certainly, some of the covers from the compilations have
their place the same way "Heartbreaker" and "White Lace and Strange" had
their place at the start of disc one. When it comes to unreleased material,
though, there's just not enough of it here.

That's not counting the other missteps. The BBC "version" of "Endless,
Nameless" is another indefensible pick where actual music could have gone.
The brickwalling. None of the three KAOS tracks are in the best quality,
and it's by no means the full set. "Opinion" has a dropout that was amusingly
and very noticeably plugged with a bit from the circulating bootleg copy,
"Lithium" pops...inexplicably, as if this was a needle drop and not a tape
transfer, and "Been a Son" is incomplete. Forgivable enough if these are the
best possible sources, but I find it hard to believe the frankly YouTube-
quality lossy source for "Drain You" was among them. This is shit Russian
bootleggers do, not major record labels--or so I thought, because here we are
with a warbly, messy copy of an otherwise great early take of a great song.
Maddening.

But at the end of the day, the disc we got is the disc we got, and what we
got is still worth a listen. It's just incredibly safe and kind of a missed
opportunity. As I said, when the disc is essential, it makes up for
everything. Even the previously-released stuff is still really rather good
("Oh, the Guilt" is an eternal favorite of mine, as is "Curmudgeon")--I only
question if it was necessary to pad the disc to the back teeth with it.

## Disc Three: 1993-1994
As the *high-minded Nirvana auteur* would no doubt agree that *In Utero* is
the group's most visceral and satisfying listen, disc three of *With the
Lights Out* is probably the objective best of the three. It's not as formless
as disc one, nor does it have the padding of disc two. It's the sound of a
band whose walls were closing in as their reach expanded, and no matter what
nightmare Kurt had in store to shake off all those who knew not what he
meant, he was still gonna write killer tracks to the bitter end.

One of the strongest cuts here also happens to be the longest: you wouldn't
expect a ten minute jam on "Scentless Apprentice" to go over as well as it
does, but thankfully, with the most buoyant groove on *In Utero*, it's a hit.
The way the track goes from being a simple riff and drumbeat and builds as
the band works it out part-by-part feels like you're listening to a classic
come together right in front of you. It's hard to imagine that Kurt basically
slagged off the Dave-penned riff at the start; as far as been there, grunged
that goes, it's got a bounce few could match.

The January 1993 Rio demos are an even better addition. Much ado has been
made about *In Utero* sounding very funeral-esque by the end, but honestly,
it's more akin to a bear actually caught in a bear trap, in pain and
homicidally so. "Heart-Shaped Box" and "Milk It" really bear (hehe) that out,
the former still obviously being the tragic single even without the lyrics
about orchids and nooses and the latter still sounding like a fucking
beatdown. Following that is an early "I Hate Myself and Want to Die" that,
minute-and-a-half long noise intro aside, bodies the re-recording depending
on the day like "Dive" on the first disc. Oh, and "Moist Vagina". Listen, it
might not be finished, but fuck if it's not funny. With me now: "She *has* a
**moist** *vagina*."

Right as the Rio sessions start to outstay their welcome with two different
improv jams (one already familiar with those Nirvana fans across the pond and
one that frankly isn't very good), we get into the home demos once more.
"Serve the Servants" haunts, "Very Ape" jaunts. Top notch. The two notable
Pachyderm outtakes both appear here, Dave's "Marigold" and No Alternativeâ€˜s
lacerating take of "Sappy", and they're both rather welcome too. To top
things off, I really never appreciated "Jesus Doesn't Want Me for a Sunbeam"
until I revisited the boxset. This one's pretty much the same as the
Unplugged version, but gosh, it's pretty. And sad! But still pretty. Are
those horns or accordions, I wonder?

Of course, it's not a perfect disc (but what is?). The two versions of "Rape
Me" featured at the front of the disc pull a lesser conundrum of the package
into focus: the band demo is easily the better listen, but the acoustic demo
is more revealing. The acoustic demo shows the way Kurt would play with words
and arrangements, but even at three minutes, it still somehow feels overly
long: the bridge isn't there, and the chorus barely registers as different
from the verse. (Perhaps this is why Kurt was unconfident of the group's
abilities outside of Pixies dynamics.) Meanwhile, the 1992 band demo is
virtually identical to the later *In Utero* version, save for a crying baby,
a half-hearted tambourine, and some bridge harmonies, but it's the one I'd
actually listen to. Including both was probably unnecessary, but as for which
I'd pick, I can't say.

I also question the disc's ordering. Putting the acoustic "All Apologies" at
the end of the disc, while maybe a nod to *In Utero* itself, is as weak a
finish as the acoustic "Rape Me" was a start. You have a beautiful burnout
with "Sappy" and then a solemn goodbye with "Sunbeam", and neither of those
are your closers? You'll end with a stiff "All Apologies" that's mostly the
same arrangement as the album one anyway? "Pennyroyal Tea" falters for the
same reason. Kurt already did this one solo on Unplugged, so if you're gonna
include it, at least use the 1990 one that didn't sound exactly like it.

Aside from the earlier mentioned acoustic demos, the only other that makes
for a good listen is the fabled "Do Re Mi". One of the holy grails of Nirvana
collecting, one that was sought-after all throughout the Nirvana tape trading
boom of the late 90s, this take's as good as Kurt's bedroom strumming really
got. That's to say, really good. Fans continue to salivate over what Kurt
would do with it on a fourth Nirvana record, but personally, I'm satisfied.
I mean, can you imagine this with a full band? (Aside from the weird fan
mockups.) Kinda ruins the beauty of it (as does the mono transfer and
brickwalling, but I shouldn't complain). Maybe Kurt should've gone solo after
all.

I'm not one for the celebrity worship thing, as I hinted at at the start.
Kurt was a talented guy with a weird fascination for medical imagery and kind
of a beta complex. He had demons, as do we all. Baggage does not endear me to
you, talent endears me to you. Yet, there was a palpable sense of loss as I
got to "Sunbeam", another reason I wished it was the closer. You can hear in
his voice that he saw something of himself in a line like "Sunbeams are not
made like me". Kurt was as much a fan as those that idolize him. It's a
weirdly relatable moment for me that his own music can't even come close to.
Dude died not a rock hero, but an R.E.M. fanatic, after all.

For as much as I can nitpick, the third disc is great. The Rio sessions
really show that Nirvana excelled at performing when they wanted to and that
the batch of songs on their upcoming third album were gonna blow away
anything Nevermind had towards the back end. There are, of course, omissions
and oversights (would've been cool to get some of the "drunk in Rio" tracks
Kurt and eternal fanbase punching bag Courtney Love did, given that we got
those Jury tracks on the first disc), but I don't wanna belabor the point.
Disc three has one outright clunker and many, many winners. For an outtakes
boxset, that's fantastic.

## Disc Four: DVD
I haven't talked about the DVD yet because I really haven't paid it much mind
all these years. In fact, I kinda doubt my DVD was played more than once or
twice. Nevertheless, in preparing for this retrospective, I did my due
diligence in digging through it, and for as little you hear about it, it
might very well be the best part of the entire box. At least, it's the most
fun to experience.

Unlike the CDs, the DVD covers live renditions and dicking around from
Nirvana's entire career, starting from one of the earliest filmed rehearsals
with Chad Channing up to the band's kitschy instrument swap on "Seasons in
the Sun". The amount of firsts and significant footage included is pretty
special. The first live outings of "Pennyroyal Tea" and "Smells Like Teen
Spirit" feature, Dave's first show is included in part, the video for the
excellent Smart demo of "In Bloom" is a treat, this set's version of the
hidden gem "Talk to Me" is a great addition, and there's even another (more
epic) take on "Jesus Doesn't Want Me for a Sunbeam" from their Paramount 1991
set. It's really hard to complain about what you get. This is exactly what
Nirvana was: goofballs trying to amuse themselves in the middle of nowhere in
between shows.

For a viewing experience straight through, it's not ideal, I'll admit. The
1988 rehearsal wears out its welcome by about "Spank Thru", and that's only
halfway through. As bugfuck as the band goes on their cover of Zep's
"Immigrant Song", complete with Kurt switching out Robert Plant's wail with a
proper scream, them having a good time doesn't exactly translate to songs
you'll wanna revisit. Honestly, though, that's not the point: it's Nirvana
having fun, and goddamn if Kurt didn't make me laugh a few times throughout.
Nirvana's *oh so dour* legacy covers up the amount of snark this man could
conjure up. "We'd like to thank you all for coming tonight and letting us
retend like we're still underground alternative rockstars." Class act.

The DVD's also home to the boxset's lone easter eggs. A tracking version of
"Lounge Act" with a scratch vocal appears as menu music if you know where to
look, and Dave uses his cymbals to break icicles off the side of Pachyderm
Studios elsewhere in the credits. I'm glad they were thinking of us explorers
when they mastered the DVD, personally. It's the kind of care you don't see
with much else on the package. Of course, even the DVD can't escape a bit of
oversight: "In Bloom" and "Sappy" are in the wrong order on the back of the
box! A minor thing, sure, but did no one check this shit before it went to
print? I say.

A surprising amount of the footage here isn't listed anywhere on the
packaging. If you just went off the back, you'd think it was all live, but
the occasional footage of the band at rest (especially on the *Bleach* tour
footage) help to break things up further. Even if all this amounts to a
slight *Live! Tonight! Sold Out!!* retread, and even if the renditions aren't
the most incredible ones of each track, it's probably the part of the set
that'll go over the best with people who aren't as in tune with every inch of
Nirvana's history. I'd probably recommend the DVD of *MTV Unplugged in New
York* or *Live at the Paramount* over the boxset for those people, but enough
griping, it's a great addition. And again--"Talk to Me". In your own
language, please.

## A Quick Rant About *Sliver: The Best of the Box*
I won't spend a lot of time on Sliver because, despite it introducing me to
*With the Lights Out* as a whole, it's kind of useless. A single disc of
"highlights" from a three-disc outtakes boxset. Without many of the
highlights. Oh, it's got the barn demo of "Smells Like Teen Spirit" (and a
kinda rubbish version of "Come As You Are" to go with it, but hold that
thought), it's got the Rio demo of "Heart-Shaped Box", it's got "Do Re Mi"--
but where the hell is "Dive"? Where's the "Drain You" demo? Where's the
"Scentless Apprentice" demo? "Best of the Box" my ass, more like "Most
Marketable of the Box".

I can't see anyone needing this disc who isn't already willing to spring for
the full thing. Better yet, despite being a "mere" 22 tracks, there's still
filler! Again, I love "Oh, the Guilt", but you can find copies of the
original single for like $5 if you know where to look, maybe less. Including
both versions of "Rape Me" was an even worse idea. For every selection Sliver
gets right ("Ain't It a Shame" is in fact the best track from the Jury
sessions, yes), there's one that didn't need to be here (the live "Floyd the
Barber" is *rough*), once again ending with the same tired acoustic "All
Apologies" just to rub it in. It's as unnecessary as it gets.

Ah ah ah, but that's not why *Sliver* exists. Three tracks are *exclusive* to
it--the Fecal Matter version of "Spank Thru", a bizarre pre-Smart demo of
"Sappy", and the barn demo of "Come As You Are". It's that first one that
sticks in my craw: the "Sappy", though unreleased, is one of the least
likeable renditions you'll hear of it (befuddling both Jack Endino and Sub
Pop when Kurt insisted on pursuing it singularly in a session), and this
"Come As You Are" has neither the reveal nor the bounce of its sister version
of "Teen Spirit" to warrant it being singled out over, say, the "Territorial
Pissings" or "Something in the Way" from those sessions. But anything from
the Fecal Matter tape? Well, now that's suddenly worth a begrudging purchase.

Tricky them, that DGC.

## Summation
Overall, it's good. The good shit is very much worth the listen. Fuck, the
Sound City and Rio tracks alone make a compelling case for why as punk goes,
few could match Nirvana's ferocity. Kurt's home demos are a whole lot
spottier, yet a "Clean Up Before She Comes" or a "Do Re Mi" is what makes a
"Beans" or an especially flaccid "Sliver" worth sitting through, at least for
me. The DVD is the brightest of the four discs: it best represents what
Nirvana actually was to those who weren't there (hi), and provided you skip
around some, it's probably the most fun part of the package.

Yet, *With the Lights Out* is dogged by a few undeniable problems across the
set:

1. For what's supposed to be a historical document, they really winged it on
some of the details and song names. Other errors (namely the DVD track
ordering mixup on the back) show a lack of care.
2. Rarely are songs represented by their most interesting rendition.
3. There's one too many B-sides and already released songs, especially on the
second disc. (It's more excusable for compilation appearances than B-sides;
buying a whole Velvet Underground tribute is a tall ask for some fans, but
buying the "Teen Spirit" single for "Aneurysm" less so.)
4. Some of this is just fucking garbage, regardless of how you slice it.
5. The brickwall mastering on a boxset of mostly unfinished material is kinda
insulting.

At times, it seems like the boxset isn't sure what it wants to be. Is it like
Alice in Chains' *Music Bank*, a career-spanning retrospective of tracks
every fan should own? Is it here to prop up the graverobbing industry of Kurt
Cobain like *Journals* was? Is it here to show Nirvana's discography in
nascent order, to reveal what really makes the song tick? In truth, it kinda
fails at all of them, but it succeeds at all of them as well. That's what
makes it so curious.

As a career retrospective, the roughest cuts only tarnish the band's image.
By miracle or by Kurt's better judgement, their three albums ended up pretty
damn consistent. The boxset does little to add to them. As a look into Kurt's
eyes, I barely notice aside from when I'm hearing him fuck around
unflatteringly, and as a rape of the vaults, it doesn't tell you much the
albums or *Unplugged* didn't already. The set often sidesteps the most
interesting early demos of each song, as if a casual Nirvana fan wouldn't
have been able to handle Kurt's stranger songwriting tendencies and needed
them tempered by two more years of A&R development. Yet, it's all of those
things *just a little* because of how skilled Nirvana really were. These are
such good songs that when it fails, you can look the other way, and when it
wins, you celebrate. For a lesser band, this probably wouldn't have flew.

In the writing of this essay, I decided to look back on the reviews that
*With the Lights Out* and *Sliver* got upon their respective releases. Some
seemed more interested in ruminating on Kurt's death and the hole he left
than anything actually featured. Others were looking for a postscript, a
secret treasure trove of musical gems from where "You Know You're Right" came
from. Others still were looking for the final word on the band, the
*definitive* Nirvana release.

In all honesty, none of them are the correct way of looking at the boxset.
You'll get the most out of it if you look it like work tapes first, then
about Nirvana as a band, and then about Kurt. Some people have a hard time
separating the two--after all, it's the man's voice, the man's songs, and the
man's guitar playing all over it, right? While the answer to that is yes, it
discounts the rest of the Nirvana story for melodrama. Kurt Cobain was an
interesting person for sure, but there's only so many times you can sell me a
tortured soul. How many of them have we had in rock? What, Nick Drake,
Elliott Smith, Syd Barrett, Thom Yorke, Siouxsie Sioux, kind of a lot. At
some point, you have to give up the ghost (literally) and look at the music.

Put it like this: If you're here for songwriting intricacies, you'll
appreciate it. If you're swayed by the differences between "Pay to Play" and
"Stay Away", you're the target audience for *With the Lights Out*. If you're
here for a revealing look at Aberdeen's folk hero, it won't have much to
offer you. There's no deep, dramatic moment where you hear Kurt strum on a
line like "It's another opiate, but to me, it's everything" and *get it*, I'm
sorry to say.

This is by no means a box for everyone. It is, however, a box for the right
people. I'm certainly glad to own it.