# How the Goldfish Man Changed My Life
## November 2, 2019
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
A retrospective on 20 years of a Counting Crows record that changed the way I
listened to music as a young Cammy.

---

My stepmom had a bookshelf CD collection when I was little. Young spergs have
active imaginations, and I was no exception; album art was everything to me
at 5. I probably spent more time staring at the cracked out, surrealist album
covers and being confused, fascinated, and terrified than I did listening to
anything at that age. (Redman's *Malpractice*, whose blobbily-proportioned
cover guy is still unsettling to look at, is a prime example of the weirdness
I found in there.)

Of course, I knew just enough about CDs to know what they were for, and just
enough about our family's Athlon-based Windows XP machine to be able to
listen to the odd album or two. Somewhere down the line, Counting Crows'
*This Desert Life* fell into my lap. It was bound to catch my attention; it
had a man with a fishbowl for a head on the cover, how could it not? What
wasn't bound to happen was how important the album would become to me; in
fact, it's the first album I ever truly loved.

That album turns 20 today, and I'm feeling sentimental. No one else is
looking back on it, so I'm going to.

Counting Crows is the quintessential "love-it-or-hate-it" band, really. You
find the rootsy, piano-mando rock and Adam Duritz's tendency to emote grandly
about Hollywood, rain, girls of various names, and wasting away for better or
for worse either cloying or touching. *August and Everything After* brought
the band renown and *Recovering the Satellites* established them further, but
by *This Desert Life*, they'd comfortably settled into the kind of band you
get if you get and give a wide berth if not. (And "Accidentally in Love"
didn't happen yet. Thankfully.)

I'm not making the case the album's gonna convert anyone who's not already
signed up to the mailing list, but if you are on board, *This Desert Life* is
one of the most overlooked, solid, and consistent records they've ever made.
Each track feels perfectly distilled into what it needs. The slower songs
don't drag (even the eight-minute "Mrs. Potter's Lullaby", somehow), and the
more uptempo ones wring whatever energy could be wrung out of a Counting
Crows record.

Hell, some of the tracks sound damn near fun. "Hanginaround" might drink to
untuned snares and hollering, but it's the hidden track (remember those?)
"Kid Things" that really gives the band away to twangy, jammy, yeehaw
goodness, almost celebratory about overnight phone calls running up huge
bills and sleeping together. Kid things make it better than it was, after all.

The sad songs are what you're here for, though, and this batch more than
delivers. "Amy Hit the Atmosphere" turns desert sunshine into inky, eerie
trembling guitars and piano chords. With age, "All My Friends" and its sense
of being left behind by those around you maturing faster than you resonates
more and more. "Speedway" might not be much musically, but goddamn if
wondering if you get off on your own anxious misery isn't the most morbidly
relatable bit on the entire album.

Yet, it's just as much what's around the album that makes me fond of it. I
can remember being shook awake and panicked by the sudden "astronaut" breaths
that kick off "Kid Things" after five minutes or so of silence. I used to
think the weird face-leaf thing that accompanied "All My Friends" in the
booklet was someone's face stretched and nailed to the ground--and that was
just stomach-churning. The album had a style I both loved and was totally
alien to. It's not much to anyone used to an adult's understanding of freaky,
but to a little sperg, I'm telling you, shit was bizarre.

*August* and *Satellites* lose me somewhere down the line, honestly. Maybe I
just have to give them more time or another listen, but so far, they're just
where "Rain King" and "Catapult" come from. This Desert Life keeps me from
beginning to end. It's Counting Crows' most to the point, gratifying
statement. It's a good entry into the band's catalog. It's a record no one
else could've made. And for me? It's the first album I loved front-to-back.
And man, I still do.

My copy of the album is beside me as I write this. It's her copy; I had a
habit of stealing people's CDs for my own hoard. I think I got more out of it
than she did though, honestly. It's not an album I listen to constantly, but
when the time's right and the mood is moody, it still does it for me. I
probably have it to thank for priming me for a lifetime of Becks and Nirvanas
and whatever else I find down the road. Really not a bad showing for a man
with a fishbowl for a head.