# Studies
## December 11, 2019
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
Don't believe everything you hear. Science is great, but human error is
greater. (And please stop trying to sound smart on Discord servers of all
things...)

---

When I was a lad, the YouTube atheist community took up a surprising amount
of my viewing time. Whether the appeal was on watching slovenly, hyperaged
fat people argue with each other and beg for gibs or on tormenting my oddly
cynical and miserable 10-year-old self with news about how everything was
shit, I don't know. Naturally, I was there when the thing morphed into
Atheism+ and then into GamerGate, but it all started with *free thought* and
*rationality* and *skepticism*. Supposedly.

If there's one thing I've taken from maturity, it's that authorities are
never truly so. No watchman is empirical, and past your observations, no fact
is absolutely so. We all have biases, and biases are a valuable part of life
that postmodernist losers don't realize are there for a reason.

I'm about to start saying things that'll make me sound anti-science, so let
me clarify terms. Science as a method is fantastic. Skepticism is an
important part of not getting fooled by marketing and conmen. I'm referring
to science as an institution, the idea of studies and research institutes
playing with numbers and data to paint some kind of picture and maybe even
influence policy decision. That's not infallible, and people, even otherwise
intelligent people people, treat it like it is. Drives me up a wall.

People get a lot wrong about science. People's general understanding of it is
that Science Is The Truth, Science Proves Things Right, and Smart People Do
Science, essentially. It's all bullshit, really. We've built up this junk
"science" image of big-brained people going into a lab and coming out with
The Truth, when the reality is that science as an institution is just as
susceptible to human error as any other pursuit. Science doesn't prove
anything, it merely discredits what's wrong. Researchers could be valiant and
curious people, or they could be taking bribes on the side. We don't know!
You have to be vigilant.

Science has essentially enabled our internal Dunning-Kruger to sing alto in
the choir of horseshit.

How many times have you seen someone, in a heated discussion, just go
"that's not what the studies say", and then with a big ol' shit-eating grin,
act like they just figured it all the fuck out? Maybe, if you get a real
high IQ individual, they'll even link you to a study, one I guarantee you
they haven't read, or at least anything more than the abstract of. I recently
ran into this when I got banned from a Discord for an off-topic discussion on
the troon question. It's such a heated shitshow of a question that I'm not
gonna get into my feelings on it here, but I faced the usual retorts from the
*educated and informed* crowd: "That's backwards." "You're using anecdotes."
"That's not what the studies say." *baby seal noises*

In an informal discussion. On a Discord server. With randos online.

There's an old saying that has no originator, though people usually give it to
Mark Twain. "There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and
statistics." Data is...just that, really, data. How you gather it makes a
difference. How you interpret it makes a difference. The motives behind the
people doing the study make a difference. If you give me 1,000 hours in MS
Paint, I can make the data say whatever I goddamn want it to. Science is
constantly proving itself wrong because data is not empirical, it's mere
sampling and observation, prone to noise and error like anything else humans
touch.

Let me count the ways a study can get botched. Just taking the most
simplistic kind of study I can think of at the moment, consumer preference
between phone brands, here's a probably non-exhaustive list of ways I can
make the thing skew in whatever direction I want:

- I can use too few people.
- Less specifically, I can pick a non-representative sample of people (say,
people who frequent tech forums, or people who skew younger than the
population).
- Too few people responding can throw the data too, if they're more inclined
to respond or have more skin in the game than the average consumer.
- I can widen the net on the demographics sampled if I'm trying to inflate
numbers, say, to anyone who owns another product from my preferred brand.
- I can count people who intend to switch to my side's brand along with the
current adopters. 
- I can use loaded questions and unclear wording to confuse people into
picking whichever answer I want.
- I can assume neutral answers as being in favor of the side I want to win.
Alternatively, I can assume neutral answers for the other side as disapproval.
- I can cheese the margin of error to make my side's numbers a few percentage
points higher and the other side's a few lower.

**These are all very real examples of how a study can be fudged.** If we're
talking about more serious things, for example a study on rape statistics, I
can cast the net as wide as possible and include things like drunk sex and
sexual harassment to make it look like rape is a fucking epidemic. It's
unhelpful for policy decisions, it's alarmist, and it shoves political
persuasion into the public discourse like it absolutely shouldn't be.

And therein lies the problem with people talking to me about what "the data"
says.

Now, does this mean studies aren't useful? Definitely not, but they need to
be carefully controlled for. You need to watch for methodology. You need to
watch for biases on the part of the study author and maybe even who's
financing it. You need to realize that even the good studies are nothing more
than a data point, and data can only suggest or disprove, it cannot prove.

And if you don't have time for all that, maybe just don't take your internet
discussions about your pet political topics all too seriously? Opinions are
fine and dandy, you know, and people generally aren't assholes. Let them be.
You don't have to be right about everything, smarty pants.