# The Exaggerated Death of Optical
## July 14th, 2020
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
The discless age will come when you pry my CD binders from my stiff, bloody
mitts.

---

Every month, I take the live version of every site on our network (plus VDU
and sushi's sites, since they're on our hosting), download them, and make
backups. I have site backups going back to July 2019, meaning by next month,
I will have a year of full Somnolescent history in my possession. For
context, mon didn't even have a site yet, and borb's was basically one page.

As for the media? Optical discs. Originally, I had a spindle of single-layer
DVD-Rs from years ago that I just wanted to use up, but now, I'm using dual-
layer HP DVD+Rs. These are just about the perfect fit for us and aside from
getting a few duds higher up in the spindle, they've worked great. These
backups have already saved our asses many times in the past. (What I really
need now is another CD binder...)

Yet, the prevailing idea is that optical media, CDs, DVDs, all them are on
their way out. People aren't buying them! Just use the cloud, you damn
luddites! It's 2020, what the fuck do you need a disc drive in your computer
for? Even the people who I'd probably just the most to keep data handy,
Archive Team, explicitly recommend against optical discs for storage, citing
their lack of longevity and per-gigabyte price. (They also say pressed CDs
have a shelf life of seven years. Jason, I want what you're on.)

One thing I've ranted about before is the artificial phasing out of a wide
variety of perfectly functional, valuable media types, but it was simply
under the guise of music. In terms of data storage, I bemoan it even harder.
You see, a major label album probably won't get lost any time soon, no
matter the format, but your personal data? It becomes especially important to
not just have multiple copies, but also to get it on as many formats as
possible. Reason being? Different formats fail for different reasons and at
different rates.

Say you have an external hard drive. The most relevant data on the longevity
of hard drives comes from Backblaze. After three years, roughly, you start to
have a good chance of having your drive wear out. Unlike Jason's ridiculous
"three years for a burned disc" lifespan, this one, I've actually experienced
firsthand. So you buy two hard drives. You're probably storing them both in
the same conditions, conditions that will directly affect that drive's
ability to get the data that's on it. Even if you're not, as people who use
RAID are aware, drives of similar ages fail at similar ages.

Okay, so say that does happen, say the drive fails. Problem is, the drive is
also the way you get the data off it. Think of everything that can fail on a
hard drive–the motor, the platters, the head and arm, fuck, the USB
connector. Moving parts and multiple failure points, plus an utter inability
to recover a toast drive without the help of an expensive outside agency is
why you can't trust this one single medium.

As for my anecdotes, I've already had two externals fail in the past five
years, plus a glitch that took down an internal hard drive in the past year.
I've not had the best luck with them. Perhaps that's because of how I used
them, admittedly, but I'm not careless with my stuff. My most grievous sin is
having them plugged in a lot, something I'm not repeating with these new
drives. As for burned discs? The oldest ones in my collection still read and
play fine. Some of the only surviving footage of me from my middle school
days, seeing as I nuked my YouTube channel multiple times in the past, comes
from a friend's burned DVD-R of a school production. In all of my discs, the
only one to ever fail on me was a professionally pressed disc of The Black
Keys' *Magic Potion*. Several years worth of DVD-Rs still read fine.

My point here isn't that hard drives can't be trusted–those site backups go
on two different external hard drives, after all. My point is that there's no
harm and perhaps plenty of good to come out of diversifying your backup
media, or at the very least, not looking at recordables like they're ticking
time bombs. The goal of backing up data is to plan for failure, not to
replace one medium with another and hope it fails less.

Optical discs, even if you trust that "they last a few years" metric (which
is true, just not to that extent), are far more likely to have *something*
recoverable off them. In fact, I once cracked a CD that came inside a
paperback book with a drumstick, and I was still able to get most of the PDFs
off it. Direct physical damage to a disc that would've certainly totalled a
hard drive didn't even render it totally unreadable. I see no reason why they
can't be relied on at least as far as an external goes.

Okay, but what about price? Hard drives are just cheaper per-gigabyte, aren't
they? Yes. If we're talking pure price efficiency, external hard drives can't
be beat. For about the same price as two of the spindles of the double-layer
HP DVD-Rs I bought (so that's 860gb between both spindles), you can have a
2tb, USB 3.0 Seagate drive. Here's the thing: have you ever filled up a 1tb
drive, let alone a 2tb drive? I haven't, and no one I know ever has. In real-
world, general use, our entire site network fits in 6gb. Trying to throw all
the data I possibly could at the filebase only got me to about 130gb. Maybe
people who torrent entire console libraries for emulation can fill up a
drive, but I don't do that. The idea that a terabyte is some kind of baseline
that obsoletes everything smaller than it is utterly ridiculous.

I think the real reason people think optical discs are obsolete is because
we're lazy. To burn a disc of site backups requires me to retrieve a blank,
stuff it in a drive, copy the data to that drive in Windows Explorer, and
wait for the thing to burn. In this age of "it's all in the cloud" (and thus
being datamined and likely that someone else will destroy your data instead)
and literally lightning-fast Thunderbolt connectors, the concept of burning a
disc at 6x is just too passe for those crazy, top-of-the-line power users.

And to that I say, you're insane. I'm gonna use hard drives. I'm also gonna
use discs and flash drives. I'm also gonna print stuff out. If it's for
public consumption, might as well back it up in the cloud too. I'd use tape
backup if I had tapes. Nothing is obsolete as far as storage goes, not the
physical realm, not the digital realm. If you're keeping stuff safe, any copy
is a good copy.