# The Death of the Hobbyist
## December 18th, 2020
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
Don't quit your day job.

---

I tried writing this last night at 2am when I was too frustrated to sleep,
but my words were getting muddled. It's a big topic, and it's hard to know
which angle to attack it from, but I think I've got it.

Caby and I get on discussions a lot. One topic we always revisit is the
"death of the small", or how tiny hobbyist communities and projects have
either vanished or centralized. It's really difficult to find friends out in
the wild; frankly, it seems like most internet people today would rather
avoid making them. Everyone's tense and usually trying to sell you something.

Nowhere is the death of the small more apparent than in art communities.
There's a jarringly different flavor to DeviantART uploads just 6-10 years
old than ones now. Old-school fandom seems downright charming these days.
There was by and large no mention of commissions, Ko-Fi, Patreons, or even
any real attempt at gaining an audience.

Groups were a big part of the DeviantART experience. I remember hovering
PMD-Explorers and PMD-Unity towards the end of both of their runs and seeing
a lot of the same people participating in both. They were really what
interested me in making OCs in the first place; before then, I knew
characters were a thing, but making them myself and participating in a world
of other people's lads was (and still is) ridiculously appealing.

Where the people congregate now is where the *money* and *followings* happen.
Tell me true: how many people have you seen asking the internet for a cool
grand to go buy an iPad for "art" reasons? How many times have you seen
people e-beg couched in warm fluffy "support an artist" rhetoric? How many
people who habitually use Twitter to shill actually like it for community?

Far be it from me to tell people not to engage in capitalism, but I don't
think it says good things about the people doing the shilling or the state
of the community at large if this is what people use it for. When money
gets involved, people get animalistic, more vulnerable, and more easily
abused. "Cancel culture" wouldn't be nearly as effective if people were more
spread out and livelihoods weren't at stake.

A weird mentality seems to drive the internet these days: the moment
something goes big, "growth" and "operating costs" are factored into the
equation, and good things become tedious things. People get concerned about
recouping "losses" for things they like doing, sites they run, and equipment
they buy. What gets pitched as "helping me make more videos" is at best
unnecessary (you're talking over speedruns, this isn't *Waterworld*) and at
worst unscrupulous. It's the death of the hobbyist.

I also think about the 13-year-olds coming up in this mess now. If you're
surrounded by hobbyists who just goof off and don't care much if anyone's
watching, you'll follow suit, most likely. If the people you look up to are
there to make money, you'll emulate that, except you won't have the skills
built up to make that work, nor the desire to have fun and improve yourself
without that push.

Put it like this: what's it say when kids are imitating streamers and
YouTubers, of all people? What happens when money is just built into their
hobby, when the reason to be isn't to have fun and improve yourself, but to
try and sell commissions and shitty wallets? What effects does it have on
burgeoning minds when everything you say is on record forever and people are
very happy to ruin your life for it?

Of course, the absolute state of DeviantART has given rise to alternatives,
none of which have really stuck. FurAffinity has had similar issues over the
years with mismanagement and broken functionality, and yet still none of the
competitors have managed to grow. (The sole example to the contrary happens
to be the one that allows blatant pedophilia like no otherâ€¦)

Personally, I've always rooted for Weasyl; aside from my mustelid bias, the
site functionality and design is infinitely more solid than either of the
former two. Yet, outside of these token PostyBirb presences, I've never seen
anyone using it. Why? It seems obvious; you hate DeviantART, you hate
FurAffinity, you hate Twitter--it's a perfectly good old-school art site,
ripe for colonization.

And the answer is simple: no money to be made.

People get the internet they deserve, by and large, and moths flock to where
the light is. On the surface, it makes sense; who wants to be on a dead site?
Issue being, "dead" is relative. You don't need a ton of movement to make a
community sprout up, or do you? Can people still give a shit about a place
where there's no money to be made and no following to be artificially built
up, but a few good interactions to be had and friends to be made? Can that
still be worth their time?

All I'll say is this much: Somnolescent is a drop in the bucket in price for
the many, many hours of enjoyment I've gotten out of it, and I'll take a loss
on every damn penny of it. I'd happily buy XenForo on my own dime if it meant
a tiny little Somnol forum where people chattered endlessly in good spirits.
If I ever start trying to grift off what I've built here, feel free to murder
me in cold blood.