# The Cassette Sideshow
## December 18, 2019
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
I mean, that's all a physical album release is at this point, isn't it?

---

If there's anyone that know a thing or two about dead music formats, it's
Techmoan. Aside from the (lack of) bragging rights that come from knowing
about him back when he was still playing with spy cameras, I've always
enjoyed his way of digging through That Which Cannot Be Played Any Longer, no
matter how obsolete.

I can't say his most recent video ("Audities 4: Physical attraction. New
music / Old formats") has made me all that pleased, unfortunately. It's as
much his fault as his puppets' faults, so I can't really say it's something
with his video. In fact, what's in the video is exactly what I like seeing,
it's just the way it's phrased that gets me: physical media being considered
a novelty, a "promotion", something to play second fiddle to streaming.

So let me get the acknowledgements out of the way before my incredibly
unpopular opinions on how music should be listened to: streaming is great.
Streaming has enabled anyone to be turned onto any kind of music in an
instant, for cheap, from anywhere there's internet. I use Spotify to try new
music and you probably do too. Tools are tools.

Here's where I differ. I don't keep albums on Spotify, I buy them on CD when
I'm sure I wanna keep it and listen to my CD and its rips afterwards. I think
of physical media in a utilitarian sense first and as neat gimmicks second. I
like holding stuff I can listen to, stuff I'll be able to keep and treasure
no question.

I've talked with people who are big proponents of streaming, and they talk
about it like it's a grand freeing of the minds and closets: "*I don't miss
ripping CDs. I don't miss syncing my devices. I don't miss juggling a music
library. I like having it all right in one app.*" It's hard to argue with
the convenience of Spotify, isn't it? I mean, do *you* miss all those things,
mari?

To answer that, I can't miss what I still do, but more importantly,
*convenience shouldn't negate ownership*. I don't trust Spotify. You
shouldn't either. Spotify is a huge corporation working as a middleman with
other big corporations to provide hoarded IP to people who consume said
hoarded IP. To this end, in our desire to have the most amount of music in
one place, we've given up the genuine joy of holding a CD or a tape in our
hands with a booklet containing lyrics and reading material that we're free
to do whatever we will with.

Physical ownership of an album is a novelty now. Actually getting the music
doesn't much matter, as we're already allowed access to the record on a
streaming service or given a download code at checkout. Artists are
increasingly skipping the physical release entirely since "they just don't
sell enough".

As seen in the video, genuinely good and still plenty listenable formats are
also now a cute novelty. The people who still buy vinyl? They're not doing it
to listen to an album as it was intended, how it was initially mastered and
sequenced. They're doing it because it's cool and retro and will most likely
put the jacket up to display as "big album art" and go right back to
listening to the Spotify copy. (Assuming the album was even originally meant
for vinyl; double disc sets with three songs a side are the *bane* of my
existence and I will never buy another again.)

Spotify is genius because it's taken advantage of the most exploitable aspect
of human psychology: gibs me dat. It's enabled people to save hundreds of
albums, never once really giving them much attention or thought, allowing
them to lie awash in ads, notifications, and other distractions that prevent
people from just sitting down and giving an album 45 minutes of their fucking
time. All for just $10 a month. When they really wanna "show their support",
they'll do the bugman thing, buy the product, and continue to consume the
product through the easy, low-effort, low-reward avenue of streaming if they
haven't already moved on anyway. It's essentially rewarding not exploring
whatsoever. It's easy-to-ignore mood music.

People treat Spotify as it was a boon to artists; that's the common thought,
right? Cut out the store, cut out the middleman, get stuff to consumers
directly? Only on Spotify, they're not listening to you. They're listening
to Billie Eilish. They're not digging past the playlists, they're not
exploring your album beyond wallpaper music and name recognition. Spotify is
the new gatekeeper. Not to mention the way artists continually try to game
the system on Spotify in the name of streams, streams, streams. Spotify is as
much a game as end-caps and T-shirt bundles, only you're not paying attention
since it's not in front of you.

I haven't even gotten into the problems with Spotify as a concept. Songs and
albums disappears from it all the time. Wanna kill circulation of an album
for 95% of people? Take it off Spotify. It's breaking news when Tool gets on
Spotify after all these years because withholding music from a platform is as
simple as saying you don't want it available anymore. You do not own
anything, again, and your consumer rights can get fucked as a result. If
you're a hardcore fan of an artist, there is undoubtedly something of theirs
you can't find on Spotify. For Silversun Pickups, it's the *Let it Decay/
Working Title* 10". Let's hear yours.

A physical release in general should still be the *baseline* for anything I'd
actually want to keep, and fun little details should be fun little details.
Don't get me wrong, getting creative with it is something I adore; it's the
attention to detail in a physical release that makes an already creative
album pop out among a sea of them coming out on the daily. I've seen a ton of
modern vinyl releases (naturally priced at $50-60 a pop) drop with paper
sleeves to hold the record and not even a lyric insert. It's shameful and
lazy, frankly, but it's better than nothing.

Short of it is, monkey brains like holding real things. CD-Rs are cheap and
easy to burn. Tapes can get duplicated. Custom packaging is creative and fun.
Hell, personalizing albums isn't much of a stretch at that level. For a
bigger artist, physical releases should be even less of a deal, and labels
are chomping at the bit to find creative ways to grab people's attention.

And how about getting creative with it? Remember when Garbage had all the
singles for their first record done up in custom etched and rubber sleeves?
Remember when Marilyn Manson released his album on purple PlayStation discs?
How about adding proper reading material in there to go along with the music?
How about illustrations that complement the album's themes and tones? How
about enhanced CDs, remember those? Nice little extras that justify the
physical release beyond the novelty. Albums can be proper experiences that
transcend the mere musical.

For artists, a creative rollout can be more than just a way to get your album
in the press. Sequencing and mastering an album for the medium in question
can create a wholly different dynamic than just duplicating the Spotify
listing, but on two sides. For fans, it can turn their attention back to the
tangible and add an extra something special to perhaps an already busy
collection. At the very least, if I like your album, I want to be able to buy
more than FLAC files.

And if someone doesn't appreciate the reading material, that's swell, let
them continue to not appreciate it, but I obsessively catalog my record
collection, paying attention to pressings and versions and bonus tracks, and
I'm sure I'm not the only one. Physical media is far more than a novelty, and
if no one can see that, I'll continue to enjoy my $2 a pop used CDs and first
pressing 70s vinyl that I'll own forever. Not like I don't still have decades
worth of music to get through...