# Tools, Toys, and You and I
## May 9, 2020
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
Been thinking a lot about simplicity, entropy, and how we've come to rely on
computers in the past few decades. Here's an essay about how technology
should augment us in being people and nothing more.

---

I live primarily online. It's not exactly an exciting, healthy, nurturing
existence. I won't lie, this is partially my fault and partially
circumstance, but it's what I've got at the moment. As we continue to sit
barricaded indoors, I've been thinking more about what here I rely on, why I
rely on it, and whether it's even especially reliable going into the future.

I've never been especially trustful of the internet. I know that sounds
strange to say, given my footprint, but I've always considered it a tool and
a toy, not an extension of my real life. Especially as the focus has gone
from empowering humans to manipulating humans, it feels like our innate
tendency to corral people has finally been realized in an abstract realm that
we've arbitrarily come to need.

Yet, in other respects, it's not so arbitrary; the original goals of the
internet are arguably its most human. The direct communication, the sharing
of information, the "web 1.0" stuff, as it's been termed--not only has that
been realized for decades, but it's arguably the most healthy and noble uses
of what we've built. They also happen to be the least complicated.

And regardless of how you view social media, modern technology, one thing is
clear--it's growing increasingly complicated.

Early last month, Tom Scott released a video called "This Video Has X Views".
The title is both a neat parlor trick and the point of the video; in Tom
Scott fashion, the man wrote a script to replace the X with its current view
count to make the point that systems both obvious to our eye and less so are
subject to eventual destruction. It's not a doomy video. Even when the script
stops working, the video will still be there with its message clear: what you
build now can affect people well into the future.

To illustrate his point, Tom uses the example of APIs, bits of exposed
backend that sites could use to plug into other sites. In the late 2000s,
APIs were big business. A million and one tinkerers lived for doing
increasingly ridiculous things with the APIs of big websites. It wasn't meant
to last, unfortunately. Nowadays, toy sites like Twitter have become big,
serious business, requiring nothing less than a full background check to let
you in.

I took something else from his video though. It's a reminder of mortality
that we should be prepared for, and I don't necessarily mean in the human
sense. I'm a big believer in Occam's razor: the simplest solution is usually
the correct solution. We have no reason to convolute things unless we do.
Throwing random technology at a problem rarely solves it, and the more
complicated a system is, the less you can rely on it without highly-trained
technicians.

We always talk about the internet being "forever", and while it's true in the
sense that anything you send over it can and will be saved by someone else,
it doesn't ring true in the literal. It's not hard to imagine a group of
well-prepared people or a box of papers surviving the depths of Siberia, but
a computer? Less so. Extreme conditions, human tampering, faulty code,
component age, lots of moving parts--these are the kinds of systems ripe to
break down. That's not to say they aren't useful, but that they require
proper care. Technology should augment what we already naturally do and open
up our world, not replace our old way of being.

Our world is increasingly run by these towers of duct tape, making our
decisions and manipulating our reality, while humans continue to be the same
fallible beings we've always been. As we should be, really; human nature is
the baseline for our behavior and brings the highest good this world has ever
seen. Problem is, we pretend the machines are any less fallible because they
can calculate in floating point, and it bites us every day. Every errant
system glitch and lost file is proof that we need to safeguard ourselves from
our own technology.

If you need any more proof of the fallibility of computers, try reading
through the code of the recently published Imperial College coronavirus
epidemic model. This is the same model that proclaimed the death of millions
of Americans and half-a-million Brits, the same one governments used to lock
the world down. Yet, not only is the code [genuinely badly written and thick
with elseifs](https://github.com/mrc-ide/covid-sim/blob/master/src/CovidSim.cpp)
hat rival *Yandere Simulator*'s, but the model produces different results
*depending on the machine it's running on*, among other variables.

> Why didnâ€™t they notice? Because their code is so deeply riddled with
> similar bugs and they struggled so much to fix them that they got into
> the habit of simply averaging the results of multiple runs to cover it
> up...and eventually this behaviour became normalised within the team.

Yes, the team behind it said "fuck it" and simply ran the simulation
multiple times, averaging the results and assuming there was a line of best
fit somewhere. Consider now that the economy's looking to crater over data
we can't even replicate in the first place and tell me we're not building on
quicksand.

My point isn't about coronavirus, nor to pretend that computers are useless
things. My point is simple: computers are tools and toys. You have digital
backups of your things (I...hope), but why not analog backups? Printouts and
hard copy of your work? Some kind of offline media in keeping your data
safe? What about for communicating? Can you reach your friends another way?
Your family? Or have you centralized it all in one fragile location that can
be wiped out with a bad lightning storm?

In our real life and in our policy decisions, nothing is sure and things are
likely to break. Having as few failure points as possible is the key, and
where you can't, safeguard. Backup. Plan ahead. For decisions that affect us
all, use the principle of least privilege: the smallest body that can
accomplish the task should accomplish it. Be as self-sufficient as possible.

I know for me, when I can get a certain Welsh girl over to the US, I'm going
as offline as I possibly can. Not to say I'll be gone, not to say mariteaux
disappears off the visible internet...but being able to disappear if I want
to, to be able to log out and not focus on it all if I want to? I think it's
a right we don't afford ourselves often enough.

So if your ultimate reaction to all this navelgazing is to say "go outside"?

Yes, I agree.