# Why Gopher Will Succeed
## May 2, 2020
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
To start off Gopher Month, I'd like to offer a bit of a statement on where
Gopher fits into the modern world.

---

Here at Somnolescent, May has been declared Gopher Month. If March was for
our personal sites and April was for overhauling the bulb mecca, May is the
month where Somnolescent takes over Gopherspace for real this time. We used
to have an instance, but a combination of less-than-stable hardware and a
less-than-stable living situation in my life made hosting it untenable. Soon,
we return.

To kick things off, and as an explanation for what exactly we're doing, I'd
like to rave a bit. Gopher is both a punchline and a flourishing internet
protocol. Gopher is both inherently useful and a fashion accessory for
contrarian nerds. Gopher is obvious and incredibly misunderstood all at once.
What it is is lesser to its fans than what it represents. Yet, in all the
contradictions, we at Somnolescent are staid fans of the possibilities of
Gopher. And so, like digital chloramine, it lingers. Here's my attempt at
explaining why.

For context: Gopher is a very, very old internet protocol codified around
1991 or so in dcb's neck of the woods, fittingly enough, at UMN. It's a
highly-structured document retrieval protocol--in layman's terms, it's built
for letting you download a ton of files quickly and efficiently. All Gopher
servers work the same, and all Gopherholes are built the same; the focus is
entirely on what you can download on it.

Any file can be hosted on a Gopher menu, and Gopher menus are so stripped
down, finding what you're looking for is practically instant. Its closest
analogy is the world wide web, but the two are vastly different. The web
appeals for the experience of browsing itself, the presentation of graphics,
video, sound, and information all mixed together, while Gopher appeals for
its no-nonsense, no bullshit approach to serving files. On the web, you're
there for the menu; in Gopherspace, you're there for what's on the menu.

For these reasons, Gopher will succeed.

**Gopher will succeed because of its simplicity.** Gopher is one of the most
efficient, low-overhead, high value protocols you could possibly implement.
We all, on a daily basis, download things. Music. Drivers. Program binaries.
Assignments and syllabi. Gopher makes finding what you need almost trivial.
What you need is there on the page in plain sight, in the place you expect,
always.

Writing a new Gopher client or even a server is dead simple. For a hobbyist
looking for a new toy to play with, Gopher is ideal. The simplicity of the
protocol means that there's a million ways to implement it on the client, all
while retaining full compatibility with all Gopher servers in existence. I'll
get back to that shortly.

**Gopher will succeed because producing content for it is easy and fast.**
All Gopher menus are plain text lists of *selectors*--either links to other
Gopher servers or links to files for download. A menu can be pertain to one
subject (say, level editors or trainer programs), but still contain links to
other menus, additional information on modding the game in question, or a URL
to a website for further details if necessary. All of this would take not ten
minutes to create with the right tools, while a similar webpage would take
much longer.

Any ordinary text editor will do for writing a Gopher menu, and with modern
servers supporting *globbing* (or automatically populating a menu based on
filename), populating a menu with hundreds or even thousands of files is as
simple as `9*.jpg`. Better yet, if someone wanted to write a tool for
generating a Gopher menu through drag-and-drop or detecting files in folders
or some other paradigm, it'd be a cinch to do so.

**Gopher will succeed because of the 30 years of software and countless
computer platforms behind it.** For a way to reinvigorate an old computer,
browsing Gopherspace is possible, even comfortable, even on 486-class
machines. In a similar vein, phones, PDAs, and tablets both new and old are
all equally fast in the simplicity of Gopherspace. Gopher is the rare piece
of technology to have something to offer both retrocomputing and modern
computing enthusiasts. Gopher might have its roots in early 90s internet, but
it's not outdated. Not by a longshot.

**Gopher will succeed because it's peaceful and ordered.** The modern
internet is defined by noise. Always-on connections, graphics, colors, and
constant updates to steal your attention away, what you need hidden behind
mandatory account creation and paywalls and clunky website layouts. Tracker
and beacons watch you from site to site. The modern internet fatigues us.

Gopher menus all look and act identical, with no support for autoplaying
sound and video, garish colors, animation, scripting and tracking, or even
inline images. While this means Gopher isn't ideal or even useful for every
use (and I am by no means claiming it is), for any scenario where you just
want to grab the odd file or two from an archive? Gopher will run rings
around any other method by which to do it.

**Gopher will succeed because it has room to grow.** By no means have Gopher
enthusiasts even begun to exhaust the possibilities for the protocol. With
its simplicity comes much room for client authors to experiment. Images and
videos can be displayed in a subwindow, for example, offering a browsable art
gallery without the overhead of a bloated art portfolio site. Even small
interface tweaks, such as a "download all files on this menu" button or
browsing using the keyboard instead of the mouse, could have a major impact
on interacting with Gopherspace.

Gopher clients have so much latitude in how they display menus that the fact
that many simply display a list of files seems ridiculous. There's nothing
preventing a Gopher client from integrating with the user's OS, letting them
browse menus in the same way they browse folders on their own hard drive. On
the other end of the spectrum, one of the most wild uses for Gopher is
GopherVR, which turns Gopher into a first-person adventure into the video
for "Money for Nothing".

The ways to interact with Gopher are all up to the imagination, and as long
as the client plays by the rules of the protocol, every single Gopher server
in existence will work with it.

---

Gopher seems easy to laugh at, but its value starts to become most apparent
when compared with the web's failures, bloat, and potential for abuse. Gopher
is rock-solid. Gopher is rigid, orderly, and prioritizes finding what you
need. Similarly, the web's value becomes apparent when you compare it to
Gopher's shortcomings. For apps, forums, communication, and documents where
styling and presentation is key, obviously the web comes out ahead, but none
of that is a fair comparison, I'm afraid.

For browsing an archive like Project Gutenberg, what would you rather have?
Pages of options scattered about with no easy way to simply browse the
collection and download an EPUB, or a clean, pleasant menu with what you
might want all in plain sight? In situations like these, Gopher still has
plenty to offer.

As we go forward with Gopher Month and the Somnolescent Gopher comes back
online, you should take it from the perspective of it being a useful tool in
a toolbox full of them. It's not the "proto-web" it's been fabled to be, nor
is it some strange alternate reality where people who've quit the web have
gone. You can use both. In fact, you should use both, and celebrate where
both are each most useful.

And as long as you have that mindset, Gopher will succeed.