# A Conversation With Colton
## Written: May 3, 2021
A quiet sensation and his girlfriend, mere minutes before he goes live to a
room full of City faithful--spent mostly talking about Built to Spill and
public access TV.

---

It's the coldest night this April by a good ten degrees, but that hasn't
stopped me from interviewing one of The City's quietest local sensations on a
lamplit corner off Burnside. He's a young (seriously, his jacket looks older
than he does), rather protective raccoon, blue-tinged fur and emerald eyes he
peers out at the world with. Yet that world, and all the scenesters and
hipsters in it, want copies of his hissy, homely bedroom folk. And he only
goes by Colton.

He's holding hands with a girl as we talk, a tiny and quiet fennec fox girl
wrapped in a maroon cardigan, who I can only assume is his girlfriend. "She's
been off at college for a few months, but she came home to see me play," he
tells me. "Madeleine's the one who got me my 4-tracker, actually."

"Really? What model?"

"Uh, I forget. It's a Fostex. I have to speed-calibrate it constantly."

The cheap gear is often mythologized as a major part of the Colton sound, but
it's more his lush, layered acoustics and lonely, occasionally achy voice
that fill the room. It's with her (whom he tells me illustrates the trees and
rivers that adorn his few properly-released tapes) that he grew into his
voice, musically and vocally, and gained the courage to tackle the loss of
family and impermanence his music often deals in.

Yet, he's eager to talk about everything *except* his own music. Like, say,
the last Built to Spill album.

"No one writes songs like Doug Martsch does. Have you ever heard what he does
with his guitar? He'll have a riff, just like any other guitar riff, but then
he'll go--" Colton proceeds to make a variety of twangy, fuzzy, squeaky
noises with his mouth, a fairly faithful emulation of a Spill guitar solo.

"Like an engine?" Madeleine chirps up at him.

"A little like an engine, yeah. I dunno. I wish I could write songs like
they do."

Madeleine stretches up to nuzzle at his face. "I like your songs better," she
purrs, and Colton giggles and squeezes her close in one arm.

And anyway, he seems to be doing something right. Colton's due to play a show
to 100 at The Green Room at the top of the hour--not bad at all for a 19-
year-old who doesn't even have a full album out.

Yet, whenever I press him, he's unassuming and modest about it. "I'm just
glad people like my music, really. I don't really tour or anything on it."
When I ask about why, he defers further. "I'm not pretty enough to tour."

I half-expect a smile with a remark like that, but it never comes. Only when
my brow furrows does he seem amused.

Worse yet for me, Colton keeps his background close to his chest. He does
admit to being a City native (at one point, he waxes nostalgic for KCTY-TV,
Channel 11's infamous public access station--"that's where I learned what a
guitar was"), but how he made it to Apricot Bay (where he and Madeleine now
reside), how he met Madeleine, or even when he picked up the guitar for the
first time--he's not telling.

And that's the way he likes it, it seems.

Stranger still is just how such an isolated, young, guarded heart got his
music in front of The City in the first place. Colton credits some of the
circulation to the rise of the internet. "That was Madeleine's idea, really.
We run the 4-tracker into the back of her computer and she turns them into
MP3s, and those go on a few sites and Napster and some other places...but how
people find it, I don't really know."

Perhaps he should look closer home. In mere months, Colton's music has
become a staple on KCCB-FM's *Out in Orbit*, their prime unsigned rising star
indie band and artist showcase, both on campus and around campus.

"Sometimes stuff comes totally out of the blue and you just have to let it
rip," senior disc jockey and senior at Cascadia University "Uncle" Wayne
Martin told me when I interviewed him at the start of the past school year.
"I got this tape from one of my Raiders, and it had this cute, handmade
cover and it said "Colton" all over it. And my guy said "Wayne, you gotta
listen to this tape, this kid's *amazing*." And goddamn, he was right! We've
been trying to get him into the studio to play for us, and we can't because
no one knows where to find him!"

Hopefully Wayne's at the show tonight then, because Colton's not staying.
"Madeleine's gotta be back at school by tomorrow."

The fennec girl nods her head at me. "We'll likely sleep on the train ride
home..."

"It's nothing I'm not used to."

When in parting, I ask him if a Colton CD or some wider release is on the
horizon, he's as laconic and unassuming as ever.

"I dunno. Would people really buy that?"