# A Fuzzy, Stuffy Stupor
## Written: November 17, 2020
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
Cat comes to check on Seb after his sickly accident on the outskirts of the
Valley Cascadia, with...disarmingly loving results.

---

The doctors had to work quickly, fidgeting with the wires and sensors and
incessantly-beeping equipment all around me. One kept track of my vitals--
blood oxygen, heart rate, white blood cell count. Another stayed with me to
check my consciousness. Two more steered the gurney I was on. There wasn't
much time to waste.

"Hey, wait, who's that?"

"Seb!"

It was the best news I could've gotten. A comforting set of large ears
barreling down the nauseatingly bright fluorescent hallway. All my bones
ached, but I could tilt my head up just enough to see him. It was Kevin,
staying brave for me again despite all the worry. I reached out and grabbed
his jacket sleeve in my right hand to let him know I was okay.

"Is he gonna be okay, doc?" Kevin whimpered to the binturong doctor, the one
who looked *suspiciously* like the one at the flower shop.

"Well, I'm afraid it's not looking too good," he said after a lifetime of
hemming and hawing through his reading glasses at a clipboard.

"Your friend's been...diagnosed as feminine."

"Mmmph!"

"All dainty and womanly, I'm afraid..."

And by the time I angrily pulled down my oxygen mask to give that guy what
for, I was already back to being rushed down the hallway.

"That doctor's a shitfuck, Kevin..." I called. "I'm gonna...grow a big beard
and show him..."

"Seb?"

Her voice came dampened, muffled through infected ears, clogged sinuses, and
my impenetrable cocoon of sheets and quilts, but it was hers. I could pick it
out in a crowd--if I could hear it, anyway. So quiet. So...warm and gentle.

"Seb, you were talking in your sleep..."

I poked my head out from the covers, unfurling back into something resembling
an armadillo. (I sleep in a ball on the best of days, let alone when I'm
sick...) Cat was dressed to keep just as warm, in a fluffy, oversized,
double- layered coat that came out well past her shoulders. She pulled my
desk chair up to the side of my bed and sat in it, a little Tupperware
container with a red lid in her hands.

"Mmhhh, Cat..." I moaned half-awake and congested--wait, congested? I was
contagious! A filthy vector for the plague I was trying to stave off! "Cat!
Cat, you can't be in here!" I yelped, digging back into the bedding in some
attempt to protect her. "I-I'm sick!"

Yet, she only gave a bemused chuckle. "Seb, it's alright," she tried to
reassure me. "I got my flu jab and everything."

"B-but what if that's not what I have? What if I have a novel disease they
haven't yet quantified the effects of?"

"I'll live through the sniffles, promise." She fidgeted with the container a
little, fingers up against the notch on the lid. "Of course, if you want me
to leave, I can..."

"No, no! That's alright. Thanks for--coming to check on me. ...W-what's in
the container?"

And poised to reveal its contents, Cat pulled open the container and leaned
it over to show me what was inside. There had to have been a dozen-and-a-half
cookies in there! Homemade! They looked absolutely delicious too, all chunky
and fresh with these little fruity red bits baked into each one...

"White chocolate with strawberries," she said with a smirk.

"Ooh...*love* white chocolate...who's the lucky bastard who gets those?"

Cat giggled warmly, snapping the lid back on. "I made them for you, silly."

*She...made them for me?* It hadn't occurred to me. I mean, it was obvious,
given that she was sitting in my room with them, but...she made them for me?

I got quiet then. Flattered. "T-thank you...Cat, you didn't have to..."

"It just seemed like the right thing to do, after I--heard what happened."

Ah. "What happened" was still a little shaky to me, certainly hearing her
talk about it. If nothing else, it was proof armadillos aren't built to be
outside, least not in the cold, damp Octobers they had around here.

Her demeanor shifted suddenly, much more still, concerned. I was anticipating
hearing things I didn't like. It was like all the air got vacuumed right out
of the room, and all she could do was hold her breath. I held mine too.
"...The police called me when they heard you mentioned me on that tape."

"...Ah. The...tape."

Cat frowned and reached into her jacket pocket, returning with my little
handheld tape recorder. I seized up seeing it; I completely forgot I brought
it with me! Things I said, things I didn't expect anyone to hear, let alone
her, pretty quickly returned to me, in twos and in threes. It didn't occur to
me how she got it at first--something with evidence return, I'm guessing.

"They played me this tape you made? Where you were talking about--"

"Oh, Cat, no!" I reached out weakly for it, my cheeks growing hotter than my
forehead. That...*stupid* fucking tape. "No, don't...don't listen to that..."

"It's okay. Not going to again." As soon as I got my hands on the tape
recorder, I buried it somewhere in the covers and slumped back down. I think
I made a mental note to destroy the tape with scissors or something.

"...But it was sweet."

"Huh?"

"You were coming to see me? To...protect me?"

"*Noooo*...I mean, yes! I was--but--it was more like...keeping you company...
through all the isolation..."

In the end, it was her smile more than any miserable explanation I could've
given that brought the oxygen back. I looked up at her for a moment,
decompressing and wrapping myself around one of my pillows, knowing at least
she didn't think I was weird for what had happened.

I mean, not that I was concerned about that or anything.

"You could've just come through town, though."

"Yeah, but...you know how I am about crowds and germs, Cat..."

"Barns and dirt are more your thing?"

"Hhheee..." Man, she even had *me* giggling somehow. "I guess so now..." I
mumbled to her, still sick, but relieved and sleepy all the same.

Cat got to her feet, returning the chair to the other side of my room and
leaving the Tupperware container over there with it. "I'll leave these on
your desk and let you get back to bed," she said softly.

"Alrighty...thanks for the cookies..."

And yet, even as she was halfway out of my door, there was still something I
felt unsaid. Something that wouldn't leave me alone until it came out.
Problem being--I didn't know how to say it.

"Wait, Cat!" I called.

She turned back into the room, head tilted. "Yeah?"

Eventually, I mangled it. "...You should--come back tomorrow, maybe. I'll...
be less sick then!" I guess that was the reason to come back now, to see a
Sebastian slowly rising off his deathbed.

Thankfully, Cat nodded gladly. "...I think I will, Seb. I think I will."

And so, I was alone again, with only my oven-hot cocoon of sheets and pillows
and my blocked, runny nose for company. Yet somehow, I was in a fuzzier
stupor than when I woke up. The best end to things, really. She was coming
back tomorrow...*and she made me cookies...*

"AAAAAAahhhahahahaaa!"

At least, I thought I was alone. Fresh from Hell or...wherever she hides,
with that unmistakable demonic cackle, one you could pick out of your worst
nightmare, Penny slipped out from under the bed and leaned over it with the
biggest shit-eating grin I'd ever seen on her. I don't know *how* much of
that she heard, but it was clearly too much.

"PENNY!" I screamed, throwing myself out of bed towards the door. "Where'd
you come from?!"

"Seb has a girlfriend, Seb has a girlfriend~"

"I-I do *not*!"

"Baking you cookies, checking on you every day--so when's she moving in,
Seb~?"

God*dammit*. "Penny, I--*will* cough on you."