# Delusional
## Written: October 21, 2020
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
Kept awake for days, Arthur investigates something shattering in the garden.

---

Crack. A sharp, hollow one to ring in his ears and make his skin crawl, and a
million tiny, little pieces spilling out over the patio floor to follow. He
panicked, struggling and suffocating, buried alive under the layers of thick,
warm bedclothes. The impact damn near made his heart kick a hole out of his
chest.

For the fourth night in a row, it had happened--and like a reflex, Arthur
woke a frightened wreck again. Every night, something louder, heavier,
noisier crashed in the garden. The first two nights, it was the bins. The
night before, it had been the grill--103lbs of stainless steel shelves and
slick black hollow metal toppling across the stones loud enough to make the
dead shoot up with a start. Tonight--a crowbar through a window? A break-in?

Arthur gripped his quilt, all the terror melting sickeningly into the lowest
cavity in his stomach. Spoiled dreams and property damage--as he found his
bearings in his pitch black bedroom, gaining grainy sight through sore,
bloodshot eyes, he bet to himself that it was personal. Golly, he *knew* it
was personal.

Sitting up in bed on his knees, the red panda reached for the antique
flintlock rifle that hung above it, the very one his great-great-great-great
grandfather Charles once shouldered as he prowled the prairie. Arthur would
be right happy to meet them face-to-face with it--he almost knew how to shoot
it, too. After a quick slip into a burgundy smoking jacket and his bunny
slippers (to--keep warm), he made his way out onto the landing with his hands
full.

And so, he stood. Stood in the long, dark shadow of the empty house, his
glare icy, his back against the wall, and his ear out to the kitchen. His
fingers stroked the barrel of the rifle subconsciously. Keen on minimizing
the noise of the stairs bearing down under his weight, he kept low with his
knees bent and took one agonizing stair step at a time until he could get a
good peek over the railing. As he drew closer, Arthur wrapped his tail snugly
around his thighs to keep his silhouette still.

With the rifle's barrel pointed half-heartedly through the posts on the
banister, Arthur scanned the scene further. Everything had settled by then.
Embers from the evening's fire still glowed softly and silently in the
fireplace. The stuffed ram head that watched over the room with wide, glassy
eyes was only barely visible in the shadow of the mantle. His shelves of
records were untouched. In the kitchen, things were stranger still; not a
pane of glass cracked, smashed, shattered, or even missing. Nothing, not even
a chair, was out of place out on the patio either.

Bleary-eyed and weary for the soft embrace of bed, though still plenty
irritated, Arthur sunk into the plush armchair in front of the fireplace and
continued to nurse the rifle. Whatever was determined to keep him up had
gotten their wish...and maybe a little extra, if they hadn't already taken
off. His slow, heavy gaze lumbered from window to window, keeping watch for a
shadow, a figure, someone whose head he could take as a consolation prize.

Alas, it never came. When the few specks of light finally calmed to the point
of dying out, the inky darkness and the comfiness of the armchair made their
own case for a bit of extra rest. It's not like he was falling asleep there,
of course, merely resting his eyes, and he'd certainly hear someone coming if
they tried any more funny business. It would be alright.

Slipping out of his slippers and reclining against the squishy back of the
armchair, Arthur let his head down against the armrest and let the rifle slip
a bit from his grasp.

Yet, just as his eyes closed, something blew them wide open. Gentle, slow,
repetitive tapping on the window behind him. Arthur tentatively leaned out
over the armrest to discover a barely visible face staring back at him among
the hedges. It seemed to be one like his own, but stretched lengthwise,
perfectly symmetrical, the mouth flat and long and the eyes empty and dead.

<p class="dialogue arthur">"AAAAAAAAAAAA--"

And everything, from the rifle to the panda lad, went clattering to the floor.

---

"Pot, pan, shaker, griddle..." Sebastian growled under his breath as he
methodically rummaged through each and every cabinet in the kitchen, pulling
out every gadget and container and painstakingly checking around every
single one. "Where the--fffffff*fuck* is my good jar?"

Penny threw open the front door and collapsed onto the adjacent couch,
sprawling out as much as a tiny cat could across the cushions.

"Penny, I can't find my good jar," he called out to her. "What did you do
with it?"

Nonchalantly, she shrugged. "I dunno. Kevin must've took it."