# The Observer
## Written: December 31, 2019
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people
On New Year's Eve, Seb meets a strange, peaceful girl--and the peace turns
out to be contagious.

---

The room's so quiet, I can hear my ears ring. The room's so dim, I don't have
to squint. My hands are still. I'm calm.

I'm calm and I don't know why.

I put my snout up against the plate glass of the second-story cafe lounge
window and stare down at a world I've stopped being a part of. A parade of
everyone in town I've ever seen, all bundled up for the cold I don't feel,
and barren branches shimmering like spiderwebs in the orange glow of the
streetlamps. They've got fireworks all ready to go behind Mayor Appleberry.
I won't be able to hear either.

I've never felt this separate.

"It's too noisy out there for me," a polite little voice said to me from
across the room. "And cold."

I turned back. She was another armadillo, surprisingly enough. A pink one.
Absolutely tiny. Wrapped up warm in coat after fleece coat that still didn't
puff her up to my size. Her gloves were discarded on the low wooden table
next to her, though she kept her smile and her thermos closer.

I didn't know what to make of her, or--why she'd want to talk to me.

"I didn't know there were other armadillos in town," I mumbled back,
squinting a little.

"Me neither. I--don't go out much."

"...I don't either."

Something pulled me awkwardly to the couch next to her. A pleasant, inviting
hospitality, maybe. A gentleness I don't get from anyone else. I should've
gotten annoyed by then.

"I like coming up here sometimes though," she said, shifting a bit to face
me. "When it's not busy."

"I've never been up here. Kevin and Penny--my, uh, friends--wanted hot
chocolate and I had to come with them to make sure they didn't get in any
trouble."

"Are they troublemakers?"

"Mmh, yeah, kinda." I pulled out my laptop and jostled the charger into
the closest outlet I could find. "Anyway, I'm only up here to get some work
done."

And with that, she went back to idly staring off into space. And while I
*did* intend to get work done, I--didn't feel like it anymore. Something
about her took me out of it. It was like an arctic frost that kept me from
breathing thawed when she drew near. Like a floodlight in my face dimmed just
long enough to rest my eyes, or a shrill, piercing siren torturing me
wherever I went ceased to be for a few precious minutes.

"...What's your name?" I asked quietly.

"Catherine."

Catherine. Goddamn...what the hell was she *doing* to me?

"I'm Sebastian. Or, um, Seb. If you want."

Catherine giggled. "I like that name."

I cracked a little grin myself and reclined. "It's a dumb family name is what
it is. ...At least it wasn't Percival, though." Poor, poor Percy. "So are
you...new here?"

"Been here my whole life," she answered. "My parents bought a big brick house
by the library when I was born, and--now it's mine while they're abroad."

"How long's that?"

"Gosh, I wanna say...three years now? Last time they sent me a letter from
Wales."

"They've been in Wales for three years?"

"Well, before that, they were in Belgium...and before that, Poland...they're
everywhere, man."

I nodded quietly, setting my laptop aside and joining her in watching the
commotion outside, all the people pacing like ants and that doofy purple
leopard fumbling with the mayor's papers in the cold. "...In a few minutes,
they'll be doing fireworks, I bet," I said to her.

"It's a new decade. Gotta be a little festive."

A life of nothing but sitting around an old brick house or up here in the
cafe lounge...surely, she had to keep busy somehow, didn't she? What'd she do
for a living? What were her hobbies? And--why was I this curious about her?
It's only been recently I've even been able to put it into words, this...
*kin* I felt with her.

I still wasn't sure what was going on, and as we sat together, I still kept
my distance some, but--I was starting to hope it'd last long past that.