# Other Pennyverse Characters
### From gopher.somnolescent.net, the Gopherhole of the weird lightbulb people

## Arthur
- SEX: Male
- SPECIES: Red panda
- AGE: 32
"Golly, city folk? I could never live in The City, I always miss home too
much."

Arthur's one of Apricot Bay's mailmen, diligently making his rounds six days
a week, shine, rain, or snow. He's a chatty, small town type, always eager to
greet the new folks when and where they show up. He's also got something of a
southern twang when he speaks, the Legendary Stardust Cowboy on his
turntable, and black powder revolvers at home. How a boy of an Asian species
got to be so damn yeehaw is anyone's guess.

Arthur is perpetually tormented by Penny, something that regularly draws
Sebastian's ire and probably should a lot more. Whether it's psychotic,
destructive, noxious plants sprouting up in their front yard or her annual
hellish Halloween shenanigans, they're always last for mail delivery for a
reason—and it's not because they're down by the beach...

Visually, Arthur is always bundled up in long pants and several layers, even
during the summer (something something sea breeze rather chilly...).

## Catherine (or Cat)
- SEX: Female
- SPECIES: Pink fairy armadillo
- AGE: 23
"Seb, you were talking in your sleep..."

Cat's the epitome of an Apricot Bay native, happy to relax and hold down the
fort while her parents are off traveling the world in their retirement. While
she doesn't herself have the most exciting life, the last thing any armadillo
particularly wants is excitement, so it doesn't bother her much. On the
contrary: she's all too happy to invite the ever-stressed Sebastian into their
meticulously-kept household for a nap and some board games, which is just how
he likes it too.

...Maybe there's some love there, but don't mention it.

That's not to say Cat doesn't appreciate the occasional day trip or festival.
She's always wondered what lies past the outer edges of the Valley Cascadia,
maybe even out past The City, into the eastmost reaches of the state. Her
ability to read vibes is also incredibly sensitive, perhaps otherworldly so,
which is what attracts her to Sebastian even when he's trying his best to
push others away, and what causes her suspicion that Kevin isn't all he
seems...

## Diesel
- SEX: ;)
- SPECIES: Axolotl
- AGE: 31
"Hey, Kev-man? My big dude! You in there?"

Diesel? Is a *chick magnet*.

In his own head, at least. To everyone else, including the normally
incredibly friendly Kevin who works as a restocker in his corner store,
Diesel is a nasty, mushy pile of moist bread masquerading as an axolotl.
Penny wants to attack him. Sebastian wants to find the hole he climbed out
of and pour a can of diesel in it to make sure nothing else follows. None of
the harsh reactions to Diesel's entire being fazes him, however. He's always
smug as ever, and he's here for one reason, and that's babes.

Axolotls aren't often found on land for a reason, but the water simply
couldn't contain Diesel's search for hot ladies. Thus, he became the first
land-dwelling member of his family, and he's had to adapt to the changes
like any other fish out of water. He's the only character in the cast who
needs to wear shoes for protection, and he carries around a spray bottle and
regularly douses himself and his clothes in water for hydration, further
adding to his revolting aura.

As mentioned, Diesel runs the corner store in Apricot Bay. Thus, everyone at
checkout has to be subjected to either his ramblings about obscure bands with
offensive names, or (if they're female) his freakish attempts at flirting, up
to and including The Guardian of Apricot Bay herself (who is completely
oblivious to the concept of sex in the first place). Diesel, ironically, runs
on dude power, whether the townsfolk like it or not.

## Giulio
- SEX: Male
- SPECIES: Common seal
- AGE: 65

If Riley is calm, collected, and comfortable in a mess of overgrown plants
and art supplies, Giulio is a hotheaded, dramatic mess himself who prefers
utter minimalism. Riley works in the medium of painting, and Giulio works in
the medium of *passion*—er, sculpture, generally. Whatever has Giulio
bothered, whether it's the trees being wrong or the sunset coming too soon
(or Riley, but hold that thought), you'll likely hear him stomp around the
gallery about it, grumbling in his pidgin mix of English and Italian, before
turning that fire into art. *Art, damn you!*

Giulio hails from the heart of Italy, leaving about 30 years prior to the
story. Through some freak occurrence, despite not speaking a word of English
at the time, he caught a flier for a vacancy at an Art Gallery in a place
called Apricot Bay and ended up right on the doorstep of its owner, a much
younger Riley. While Riley's long known he has a thing for Giulio, Giulio's
yet to admit it to himself or to anyone else, leading to...semi-frequent
teasing from the otter lad~...

Art and homosexuality aside, Riley and Giulio click remarkably well, and can
usually be seen fishing together or chilling in Apricot Lake, which the Art
Gallery overlooks. Hey, it's been home to them for decades now, might as
well make use of it!

## Gonzo
- SEX: Male
- SPECIES: Bunny
- AGE: 24
"You get hit with those cannons—they melt your bones and stuff, into a little
pile! It's like you were never even there..."

Once upon a time, Gonzo was merely a stormchaser, a nomad in a junker of a
camper van only running because of his own handiwork. He'd always been
interested in the stranger side of life, the slippery government dealings,
the question of extraterrestrials—but mostly, he lived for funnel clouds and
traveling cross-country as cheaply as possible. All credit to his ingenuity;
from an incredibly young age, Gonzo was able to pull it off.

But come closer to the new millennium, something changed. Some *event*
happened, something that shook Gonzo to his core, and the bunny boy was never
quite the same—and he won't let anyone close enough to tell what it was. Once
curious, once constantly roaming, Gonzo's since parked his van at the
outskirts of the Valley Cascadia and guards it against the coming alien
invaders with his life. He's often frazzled and sleepless, completely willing
to believe fortune tellers, mediums, and psychics about the future and
paranoid that every errant conspiracy theory is completely true.

Gonzo's by no means dumb. He has an incredible amount of mechanical know-how
on cars, amateur radio (on which his callsign, K7UFO, has gained something of
a reputation for bizarre rants, and undoubtedly someone out there is taping
them whenever he goes live), and weather patterns (at least, as much as
someone without burgeoning improved doppler radar can have). He certainly
knows how to piece things together in an emergency, even when that emergency
gets him a little (or a lot) jumpy.

The hope is that one day, Gonzo can get some closure and peace from whatever
he worries is out there, even if doing that might require contact with them.

## The Guardian of Apricot Bay (or the Guardian for short)
- SEX: Female, but something tells me it doesn't quite matter
- SPECIES: Spirit, but manifests as a knob-tailed gecko
- AGE: Gosh, several centuries now? Longer?
"Come now, Colton, no one will bother you."

The Guardian is just as her name implies. She's the protective force around
Apricot Bay, making sure the townsfolk are happy and residents are peaceful
to one another. She's not alone; every settlement has a being like her,
centuries and millennia old, whose presence can best be felt as the energy
and vibe of a certain area. The relationship between a settlement's guardian
and their residents is symbiotic; the stronger the bond between the people,
the more desire they have to put love and care back into the town, the
stronger her powers get, and the more clearly she can manifest in person.

Given that the vibe of Apricot Bay is warm and natural, if also odd,
idiosyncratic, and off-kilter at times, talking to the Guardian is much the
same. She might not talk like everyone else, she might be utterly oblivious
to Diesel trying to hit on her, but for those who deserve it, those who'd
blend in nicely with its strange, quiet, mysterious, overgrown surroundings,
she'll make sure they feel at home as much as she can. (Subconsciously,
mainly; she avoids manifesting for just anyone thanks to her, well, alien
appearance. Gonzo especially probably wouldn't be so appreciative at first.)

Unfortunately, Apricot Bay and her Guardian have taken serious attrition in
the decade or two leading up to the start of the story. The Spirit of The
City (a sludgy, corrupting force who acts as the guardian for The City) has
grown strong thanks to an intense period of growth and mass urbanization.
Being as territorial as guardians often are, he's set his sights on Apricot
Bay in particular. Should he be successful, the Guardian of Apricot Bay
would essentially dissipate altogether, leaving behind a bunch of cold,
hollow buildings and depressed, anesthetized people for him to claim.

Thanks to the shifting tides, the Guardian mostly appears in people's dreams
to communicate with them, where she needs a fraction of her power to work. As
far as her powers go, while she doesn't cause physical harm, she's more than
happy to invade people's heads and turn their dreams toxic and frightening as
a warning to those who cause enter to cause trouble (like Sebastian, whose
easy to anger nature, she initially takes as a threat). On the contrary, for
those she sees in need of help, she can release soothing pheromones into the
air to ease fear and suffering.

She usually appears in two forms, either in her gecko form, or as a set of
glowing, ember-like orbs that blow through the grass, picking up vibes around
her. Her gecko form's eyes act as a mood ring; red eyes mean she's angered,
ice blue eyes mean worry, green eyes mean she's sensing, and golden eyes mean
you should probably check back later, because no one's home.

## Kevin
- SEX: Male
- SPECIES: Aardwolf
- AGE: A timeless, spaceless infinibeing—looks about 26
"It'll be okay, Seb. We'll find Penny, and she'll be okay too."

Kevin's a strange beast. He originated not in Pennyverse itself, but in the
harsh, nibbling noise of Somnolescent's Multiverse, and somehow (we're still
not sure) ended up in the dumpster outside where Penny and Sebastian, his
now-closest compatriots, were working at the time. His strange origin story
has left him with a few unique traits; he can't die, he has the ability to
warp the world around him and escape into other worlds on a whim, and he's
utterly clueless to mortal things.

Not that you'd know from looking at him. Kevin is a happy, dumb dog shaped
like an aardwolf. He's happy to spend the days napping, goofing off with
Penny (who often rides around on his head), and trying to avoid Diesel, whose
corner shop he works at. He's hard to shake; a strong layer of optimism and a
varnish of cluelessness on top of that means that, when he needs to push, he
pushes, and he'll encourage anyone around him to keep pushing as well, as
long as it takes.

Of course, Apricot Bay's more occult-oriented residents know there's
something off about Kevin. Catherine can't quite put her finger on why she
doesn't trust him, and The Guardian of Apricot Bay can't shake feeling he's
a threat, even though she knows he's completely harmless. Perhaps if Kevin
were a more self-aware, selfish, or vengeful sort, he could do some serious
damage with his powers, but as it stands, the most he thinks to do with them
is to go find nachos lying elsewhere in the Multiverse.

Kevin loves giving hugs, and they're perhaps the one way his powers affect
the world he lives in, as everyone else seems to love them too. Even Seb, who
refuses to let anyone touch him with their filthy unwashed filth, is more
than okay with Kevin's hugs.

## Madeleine
- SEX: Female
- SPECIES: Fennec fox
- AGE: 14
"It'll be okay, Seb. We'll find Penny, and she'll be okay too."

It's said that Madeleine will either go on to become a mild-mannered history
teacher or a brutal warlord—depends on the day. No, she doesn't have Penny's
mean streak, and she's far too polite and sensitive to ever hurt someone.
Madeleine's just a young girl with a strong fascination for early ancient
history and all the bloody wars, neat weapons, and blocky, towering
architecture that came with it.

While not native to Apricot Bay, Madeleine moved there from overseas with her
parents to escape the desert sands that often made it impossible for a young
Madeleine to breathe. Her asthma is still a going concern, even in Apricot
Bay's clean air, and her fragile, sickly nature growing up led to her instead
ravenously consuming the various textbooks and historical non-fiction her
father had collected working as a lecturer back home. It all blossomed into a
love for the weird and powerful side of the long past.

Madeleine is rather often seen with her boy Colton, whom she meets over the
course of the story after discovering him noodling on his hand-me-down
acoustic guitar during a trip to the Art Gallery. Even with some resistance
from her parents, the pair become inseparable, him protecting her and her
caring and loving for him, sharing long walks and exploring the corners of
the Valley Cascadia together like only teenagers who grew up too fast could.

Take note of her accent: while Madeleine doesn't sound quite as foreign as
she used to (the closest Earth analogue is an Egyptian accent), if you know
what to listen for or she's feeling a bit heated, you can still hear it. Her
English, however, is impeccable, if a bit dated (teaching yourself to read
from a young age using 30-70 year old textbooks will do that to you).

## Penny
- SEX: Female
- SPECIES: Housecat
- AGE: 22
"And how's my new favorite plant doing today~?"

Her first word was "bitch", and her teachers would demand raises four months
into the school year. Penny's always been a bit of a troublemaker and out for
laughs. She was an only child up until she turned 12, when ten others
suddenly joined her, all sharing her fondness for poking and climbing on
everything.

At 18, encouraged by her weary parents, she got hired by her uncle Kyle as a
file clerk at his server farm across town, a dreadful job—but one where she
met the grumpy armadillo server technician Sebastian. The two became quick
friends, poking each other's buttons at work and hanging out, bitching about
work outside of it. Kevin was added to the mix after Seb found him poking
around outside in a dumpster, his cheery, naive attitude more a match for
Penny's immaturity.

Still, the mindless, draining work eventually proved too much; Penny went
missing in action about a month prior to the start of the story, leading Seb
and Kevin on a wild goose chase across The City to find her. By sheer chance,
a boy named Colton got thrown into the mix, reliant on her after his own
mother went missing and bringing out a surprisingly caring streak in her in
the process.

Nevertheless, the trio eventually reconciled and decided to move to the City
satellite village of Apricot Bay together and start somewhere less soul-
sucking. Since then, she's usually been found hiding under beds and in random
closets throughout their townhouse, tending to their garden (which could make
the trio some money if she grew anything other than man-eating plants and
noxious weeds), and torturing the mailman Arthur at every opportunity (with
said plants and weeds).

## Riley
- SEX: Male
- SPECIES: River otter
- AGE: 62

Riley's backstory could be a full-blown story in of itself. In his early 20s
(so some 40 years prior to the start of the main plot), he moved to The City
to pursue his paintings, finding himself right in the middle of the explosion
of interest in what'd become known as the Pompier movement (though of course,
no one involved actually went by that).

Despite his outrageous style of dress, outspoken personality, and open
homosexuality, Riley actually found himself one of the most successful out of
the scene thanks to merging the style's medium bending, making paintings
spill out into the room or physically damaging and aging them to match their
surroundings, with more traditional nature scenes and Americana. It also
brought conflict, as the scene's more ardent followers accused him of selling
out the more experimental nature of turning the real world into art by
bringing it back into fantasy. Or something.

In response, Riley fled for the outskirts of The City Metropolitan Area,
buying out an abandoned, run down manor at the edge of the Valley Cascadia
with plans to turn it into a gallery and studio for himself. Imagine his
surprise when the manor seemed to be healing on its own somehow! Even
stranger is when his longtime partner Giulio responded to one of his flyers
for exhibitions, barely speaking a word of English but somehow finding his
way right to him. In time, he's learned not to question it. The building's
got magical properties (or someone watching over it, perhaps).

These days, Riley is a much calmer, satisfied soul. He spends the vast
majority of his time painting (of course), fishing (of course), either with
Giulio or his recent apprentice Colton in tow, or tending to his plants,
which are absolutely everywhere scattered around the Art Gallery and run down
the walls like ivy. He's incredibly difficult to anger, a calm voice in a
house where Giulio's drama and Colton's teen angst occasionally reign supreme.