NAME: Catherine (or Cat)
SEX: Female
SPECIES: Pink fairy armadillo
AGE: 23
WORLD: Pennyverse (https://toyhou.se/~world/30445.pennyverse)

BACKGROUND
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Catherine is an armadillo born to older but caring parents. An only child,
she is her parents' pride and joy, and as such, was given their house when
they made the decision to spend the rest of their days adventuring around the
world. Her quiet, private nature means she lacks close friends, despite being
well-liked in the neighborhood.

PERSONALITY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Strengths/talents
Able to read what she calls "vibes". This can mean seeing someone's true,
hidden nature or their future selves. It also means she's very good at
sensing when trouble is afoot, though she'd be unable to tell you
specifically what. Surprisingly stubborn, as she knows she's right even when
she can't explain why.

Weaknesses
The usual armadillo weaknesses including poor social skills, an aversion to
physical contact and a shorter temper than most animals. Gets very stuck in
routine and has a hard time with change.

Fears/insecurities
She's not so much insecure as frustrated by people's lack of trust in her
vibe reading. A psychic power so vague that no one will believe her.

Disorders/diseases
Sensitive sight, sensitive hearing, gets tired easy.

Tics/nervous habits
When nervous she becomes avoidant and mute. When she does speak, she'll
quietly repeat words over and over again, as if to help calm herself down.

BEHAVIOR
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alone
She's very used to being alone, and is most comfortable by herself. She has
several little hobbies and interests to pass the time, including knitting,
boardgames and documentaries that most others would find painfully boring.
Gets lost in her own thoughts easily.

At ease
Only speaks when necessary, is prone to napping when comfy. She's most
comfortable when watching the action from a safe distance. Preferably with a
warm drink.

Under pressure
Although she can usually prepare for stressful situations thanks to her vibe
reading, when she does get properly pressured, she ends up stood frozen in
place, curled slightly in on herself. She finds it hard to get words out,
becoming rather useless in stressful situations.

Trusting
She continues to be kind and warm to her close friends, and likes to offer
them knitted garments and homebaked cookies. Tries to introduce specific time
in her routine dedicated to being with her closest friends.

Unfamiliar
Friendly and genuinely warm. She's as kind as she can be to everyone she
meets, as she believes strongly in treating people how you'd like to be
treated. As such she's also a very quiet talker.

Untrusting
She'll at least try to keep polite (unlike Seb), but expect her to leave as
soon as humanly possible.