..........................THE SOMNOLESCENT MANIFESTO...........................
                                      ___
                                    /###  \
                                   /####   \
                                  |#####    |
                                  |#####    |
                                  |#####    |
                                   \####   /
                                    \###  /
                                     \## /
                                     |###|
                                     |###|
                                     |###|
                                      ###

We dedicate this work to the public domain worldwide. Somnolescent is a
concept as much as a collective, and we encourage sharing of our ideals. See
https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ for more information.

...........................I. THE RISE OF CREATION...........................

It's hard to describe the aims of Somnolescent without first addressing what
inspired it.

We all experience a growing sense of getting left behind every day. Left
behind by a culture we're out of step with. Left behind by a changing
internet, chasing attention rather than passion or excellence. Left behind
by ourselves, in some cases. The past is still with us, by choice or by
circumstance. Limitations bind us.

It's in this pressure that creation happens.

Creation is the ideal to strive for. It's a way to translate thoughts, ideas,
pleasures, pains, and fantasies into something tangible. It's an escape for
all parties involved. It's self-improvement--provided you keep yourself to
it. It's passion, something to wake up to and breathe in deep, and something
to stumble to when it hits the brain.

What's being created is of lesser importance. Our collective features
musicians, writers, visual artists, coders, and worldbuilders alike, and we
have room to grow further, into new mediums. The important thing is that
creation happens, and that the mindset for creation is there.

...........................II. BEING SOMNOLESCENT............................

In medical terminology, "somnolescent" refers to a tendency towards
drowsiness. For Somnolians, "somnolescent" is just the natural state of being.

Taken literally, the focus on sleep (and indeed, the original meaning of our
half-bulb insignia) is because Somnolians are not the most disciplined or
structured bunch, and staying up long hours of the night and sleeping
irregularly is how we operate. Less literally, however, it's a microcosm of
everything we stand for, our modus operandi as creators.

Certain traits define a Somnolian:

1. The drive to create, as discussed.
2. An unshakable desire to keep moving, whether the present is any good or
not. Ironically, despite sedate appearances, the last thing a Somnolian wants
to do is stay in the same place.
3. A fascination for the damaged, the bizarre, or the obsolete, or any
combination of the three.
4. A shared sense of isolation or alienation. Being alone brings us together,
and Somnolians are fiercely loyal to those they care for.

In this sense, the bulb takes on meaning. It's an idea. One perhaps
undercooked, with no real aim, a bit scuffed, and being out of an underlying
fascination for times long gone, unseen, or intentionally buried, but an idea
nonetheless. It's something to be fostered and explored.

Somnolians are a varied bunch. Some can't stand the noise and others live for
it. Some of us are better with words than others. We specialize in pockets of
niche knowledge and trades far apart from one another, converging to expand
our horizons or just to enjoy something a bit different.

One thing stays true: even half-asleep, we put up a hell of a fight.

.................................III. IDEALS.................................

Somnolescent comes down to five main ideals, all of which steel our resolve
as creators and as people.

	A. Passion
	We call it many different things, but Somnolians get excited about things.
	The minute, the detailed, and yes, maybe the arbitrary. The things that
	make us a little embarrassed for how loud we crow about them. We might not
	all share the same things to be passionate about, but we share passion.

	B. Openness
	Nothing will burn the river down faster than dishonesty, both dishonesty
	with each other and dishonesty with our work. Somnolescent means the
	freedom to dissent, to challenge, to disquiet. Disputes solved openly
	will always end better than dirt kept inside.

	C. Anti-obsolescence
	Nothing is ever truly obsolete. Things cast aside as such will always
	have a use for their characteristics or as a point of reference. In some
	cases, an "obsolete" method of doing things (such as CGA color palettes,
	Gopher, or 80-column text files like this one) is desireable precisely
	because of its limitations.

	D. Experimentation
	Somnolians are eager to try out different methods of solving problems or
	getting certain effects in our works. It keeps the occasionally tedious
	and frustrating process fresh and interesting. Even if it doesn't work,
	it's been tried, and that's worth more than it seems.

	E. Interconnectivity
	Our small size enables us to experience the benefits of both
	individuality and community. Both taken together create individuals that
	can stand on their own and be part of something bigger when advantageous.
	Collectives are nothing to be shunned; they're how things get done.

Put simply, Somnolians tirelessly use the past to find the future, for
ourselves and for each other.

.................................IV. FORWARD.................................

For Somnolians, the way forward is always creation. Even as we slow down, burn
out, get distracted, and grow anxious and fragmented, creation will come in
the end. There is no rush and no price for creation. We often start from
nothing and can continue from nothing at will.

The Somnolescent collective itself grows sporadically. A rather insular group
(a Somnolian often distrusts until more information is available), the
process of joining and where it takes place is up to legend. When it happens,
it happens. Each Somnolian has a different story as to how they got here.

Our principles are concrete, but we constantly change as people. We push each
other and we push ourselves. We have more than enough time and more than
enough drive to keep us going, regardless of who gets in the way.

All will be fine in the end. The glow of the bulb guides us all.

                                    | | | |
                                 \    ___    /
                                -   /###  \   -
                                -  /####   \  -
                                - |#####    | -
                                - |#####    | -
                                - |#####    | -
                                -  \####   /  -
                                -   \###  /   -
                                -    \## /    -
                                 /   |###|   \
                                     |###|
                                     |###|
                                      ###

                            http://somnolescent.net